Employee loyal qualities 

7 Qualities Of A Truly Loyal Employee 

First things first: Where employees are concerned, loyalty has nothing 
to do with blind obedience, or unthinking devotion, or length of tenure. 

Surprised? Think of it this way. Which employee displays greater 
loyalty? 

1. The employee who has been with you for ten years and in that time has 
learned to do just enough to fly, unseen, under the performance issues 
radar, or 

2. The employee who has been with you for 18 months and believes in 
where you’re going, how you want to get there – and proves it every day 
by her actions 

Of course experience is important, but given the choice I'll take the 
employee behind door #2 every time. 

At HubSpot we’re fortunate to have hundreds of extremely loyal 
employees. We're working hard to create a culture that recognizes and 
rewards true loyalty. We still have a long ways to go, but you can see 
our "work in progress" in our Culture Code slide deck. 

Truly loyal employees are not just committed to helping their companies 
succeed; their loyalty is also displayed in other ways, some of them 
surprising. 

1. They display loyalty through integrity. 

Many people assume loyalty is proven through obedience: Often unthinking 
and unquestioning, even when a request or directive falls into a gray 
area or, worse, is unethical or illegal. 

An employee who consistently seeks to do the right thing is not just 
following a personal credo – she’s also looking out for your long-term 
interests. You may see her as disloyal today… but in time you’ll realize 
that she displayed the highest form of loyalty by helping you avoid 
missing the “do the right thing” forest for the “do it right now” trees. 

2. They generate discussions others will not. 

Many employees hesitate to voice their opinions or feelings in a group 
setting. Some even hesitate to voice their opinions in private. 

An employee once asked me a question about a new initiative. After the 
meeting I pulled him aside and said, “Why did you ask about our new 
pricing strategy? You know what we’re doing – you were part of the 
planning.” He said, “I do, but a lot of other people don't, and they’re 
hesitant to ask since they aren’t directly affected. I thought it would 
help if they could hear what you’re thinking and what we’re planning.” 

Loyal employees have a great feel for the issues and concerns of the 
people around them, and they ask the questions or raise the important 
issues when others won’t. They know, for the company to succeed, that 
you need to know what employees are thinking… and that employees need to 
know what you are thinking. 

3. They praise their peers. 

Truly loyal employees care: About the company, about its customers, 
about its mission… they feel they’re working for something greater than 
just themselves. So they appreciate when another employee does something 
great because that means the company is fulfilling its mission. 

Employees that praise and recognize others, especially when it’s not 
their job to do so, don’t just display great interpersonal skills. (When 
you do something well, praise from your boss feels great… but it’s also, 
at least generally speaking, expected. At least it should be. Praise 
from a peer feels awesome, especially when you respect that person.) 

By praising others, they show they care. 

Caring forms the basis of loyalty. 

4. They dissent and disagree 

Every great company fosters debate and disagreement. Every great leader 
wants employees to question, to deliberate, and to push back. Weighing 
the positives and negatives of a decision, sharing conflicting opinions, 
playing devil's advocate… disagreement is healthy. It’s stimulating. It 
leads to better decisions. 

Loyal employees share their opinions, even when they know you may not 
initially appreciate those opinions, because they want the company to be 
better tomorrow than it is today. And they’ll occasionally take stands 
against a point of view or decision. 

5. They support in public. 

After a decision is made, loyal employees get behind that decision even 
if they privately disagree. And they don’t just pay the decision lip 
service; they support the decision as if it were their own – because 
when you’re loyal, every decision is, ultimately, your own. 

When they disagree, some employees (the not so loyal ones), whether 
passively or actively, try to show that a decision they disagreed with 
was in fact wrong. 

A truly loyal employee puts aside his feelings and actively tries to 
make every decision the right decision – instead of willing it to fail 
so they can prove themselves right. 

6. They tell you what you least want to hear. 

The Inverse Rule of Candor states that the greater the difference in 
“rank,” the less likely an employee will be to openly take a different 
position: An entry-level employee is fairly likely to tell his direct 
supervisor that he disagrees with that supervisor’s decision, but he is 
almost totally unlikely to tell his boss’s boss’s boss that he disagrees 
with his decision. 

If you’re the CEO, that means your direct reports may pull you aside for 
an open, forthright chat… but few other employees ever will. 

Truly loyal employees know that what you least want to hear may be what 
you – and by extension your company – most need to hear: That an 
initiative won’t work, that a decision-making process is flawed, that a 
mistake has been made… truly loyal employees realize that while you may 
not like what you hear, ultimately you want to hear it because what 
matters most is doing what is best for your employees, your customers, 
and your company. 

Well-intended silence can be a good sign of loyalty; speaking up, 
especially when it’s awkward or even painful to do so, can be the best 
sign. 

7. They leave when they need to leave. 

If you can’t tell by now, a truly loyal employee is almost always a 
sensational employee. Often, they’re your best employees – so the last 
thing you want is for them to leave. 

Yet sometimes they do: For a different lifestyle, for a better 
opportunity, for a chance to move to a different industry, or simply to 
take what they’ve learned and start their own company. 

When it’s time, they tell you it’s time to leave – and they help you 
prepare to fill the hole they create. 

You? You’re disappointed but you wish them well. For a time, even if 
only for a few years, they put your company’s interests ahead of their 
own… 

…and now it’s your turn to do the same for them. Of course, you can 
always make your most convincing arguments to encourage them to stay 
(hey, you’re loyal too!) – but if it doesn’t work out, the right thing 
to do is to return their loyalty, wish them well and help them continue 
to stay awesome. 

Dharmesh Shah is founder/CTO at HubSpot and blogs somewhat regularly at 
OnStartups.com. You can get new updates by clicking "Follow" at the top 
of this page. 

Are your best employees thinking about leaving? August 05, 2013 144,880 
42698 

inShare 3,101 Would you be open to explore a situation if it were 
clearly superior to what you’re doing today? 

This past weekend I conducted a 10-second survey comparing job-hunting 
activity with current job satisfaction. So far almost 8,500 people have 
taken survey, and only 12% indicated they were extremely satisfied with 
their jobs. I'll discuss the full survey later this week, but these 
results should give pause to those trying to hire great people, or 
expecting to retain those already hired. You might want to take the 
survey yourself before you read the following. Not only will the 
findings be more accurate, but the comments and suggestions on what to 
do after getting or giving the “yes” will be more meaningful. 

Negotiate Satisfaction, Not Compensation 

When I first became a recruiter, my partner and I tried to come up with 
one question which would guarantee a yes response when calling a 
fully-employed person who was not looking for another job. After 50 or 
so different versions, the above question did the trick. Over the next 
30 years, and tens of thousands of calls later, recruiters (we’ve 
trained thousands) who use this question still get a 90% plus positive 
response rate. If you took the survey, you’ll see the results for 
yourself – over 95% of those fully-employed answered yes to the 
question. Surprisingly 85% of those people who classified themselves as 
absolutely not looking for another job and highly satisfied – the super 
passives – still answered yes to the question. But this is just the 
beginning of the story, not the end, so don’t jump to any conclusions. 
(The survey is still open and the complete results will be posted later 
this week.) 

A few years ago, I conducted a similar survey with LinkedIn. This is 
fully explained in The Essential Guide for Hiring & Getting Hired, but 
the basic findings are summarized in the graphic. The blue curve 
represents growth and impact over time. The flattening of the curve 
indicates declining job satisfaction and a corresponding increase in 
job-hunting activity. This is shown by the six different job-seeking 
types. 

However, not all jobs are created equal: the less active the person, the 
better the job needs to be to make the switch. Those not looking at all 
– the Explorers and Super Passives – would only take a new job if it 
were an outstanding career move. The most active – Networkers and the 
Hunters and Posters – would take anything reasonable, including a 
lateral transfer. 

So when a candidate says, “Yes, I’d be open to explore a better career 
opportunity,” don’t start box-checking skills, comparing salary 
requirements, or using hyperbole to sell some job you’ve posted online. 
This is one sure way to prevent an open discussion. 

(Side note: if your posted jobs read like lateral transfers, you’re only 
attracting 17% of the total talent market.) 

Recruiters: Don’t Sell the Job, Sell a Short Conversation 

Determining if a job represents a true career move takes hours of time 
spread over weeks, so don’t rush it. A person who is not looking, but is 
open-minded enough to talk, expects to have a short two-way 
conversation, sharing their own background while finding out a little 
about the opportunity. Begin by reviewing the person’s LinkedIn profile 
for a few minutes, rather than by describing your job opening in any 
detail. During this initial review you want to determine if the 
potential for a career move even exists. That’s all. A number of factors 
are required to meet this standard, including the scope and impact of 
the job, the overall responsibility, the team size, additional learning 
opportunities, the visibility of the position to upper management, the 
rate of change and the long-term potential. All of this needs to be 
considered in comparison to what the person is now doing. If your 
opening seems to offer some of these growth opportunities, explain why, 
and suggest having a more detailed conversation. 

Job-seekers: Don’t Start Negotiating Before You Know the Opportunity 

Slow down. Stay open-minded. Don’t filter the conversation on what you’d 
like to get on the day you might start on some new job. If the job 
doesn’t offer a great career opportunity, you’re not going to take it 
anyway, so don’t worry about the salary, title, company or location 
during the first call. If the job is truly great, you’ll adjust your 
opening requirements, and if you’re the right candidate, the company 
will adjust theirs. 

While over 90% of all passive candidates will agree to an exploratory 
career conversation, recruiters and candidates alike have a tendency to 
rush to the close before they understand the beginning. From a practical 
standpoint don’t use short-term information to determine if you should 
enter into a long-term career discussion. By doing so, you'll likely 
miss out on ever having the long-term career discussion. 

