http://internsover40.blogspot.in/2009/09/10-tough-q-as-for-older-workers_29.html?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_126174373

http://careerconfidential.com/ultimate-guide-to-job-interview-prep/?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_126143779

http://jobstips.us/got-an-interview-things-to-remember.html?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_125408494
http://www.bullhornreach.com/article/view/35560?referer=www.linkedin.com&shortlink=1219316
http://internsover40.blogspot.in/2009/09/10-tough-q-as-for-older-workers_29.html?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_146844027





http://careerking.net/10-tips-for-the-perfect-job-interview/

Prepare for the phone interview!

 May 28, 2012 by Deekshith Vanamala · Leave a Comment
Filed under: Uncategorized  

It has become commonplace for companies to conduct phone interviews before 
bringing candidates in for the next round of interviews. 

This has become a great way to identify candidates who are suitable for the 
role and thereby avoid wasting time with full rounds of interview. Of course 
your body language, smile, and ability to connect with someone on a personal 
level gives you the upper hand when sitting in the same room; but there is no 
such opportunity in the a phone interview! 

Therefore, you must be on top of your game while interviewing over the phone. 
These 2 things will help you a lot:
 
1. Maintain peace of mind
 Maintain a relaxed, yet confident manner so that the interviewer gets the sense 
 that you are pleased to have the opportunity to discuss your qualifications and 
 background during the phone interview process.
 
2. What not to do
 Under any circumstances, do not wander around your home or office during the 
 phone interview. Distractions can prevent you from focusing your efforts on 
 providing compelling answers to the interviewers’ questions.
 
Let us know if you have any more suggestions.



6 Lies We Tell Ourselves About Job Interviews

1,585
inShare


How many hours did you spend researching that last car or flat panel tv 
you bought? How many hours did you spend practicing for your job 
interviews? We all know that many jobs and perhaps careers are won or 
lost during the interview process. You have a Great resume, Great cover 
letter and Great attire. Win win win. Not so fast. If you did not 
prepare for the interview this will put you at a competitive 
disadvantage. So why not prepare? It really is pretty easy. Just 
requires some practice and time.(Editor's Note) 

Lies We Tell Ourselves About Job Interviews Guest Contributor: Michael 
Neece, CEO, InterviewMastery.com 

I present frequently to groups large (200+) and small on job interview 
skills, and I am constantly amazed at the harmful lies people tell 
themselves about job interviews. 

Few will argue about the importance of having a great resume; after all, 
it is the resume that generates job interviews. But nearly all job 
seekers minimize the importance of their own job interview skills. 
Minimizing the importance of interview skills reduces the probability of 
getting the job offer because it is only through an exceptional job 
interview performance that you'll get hired. 

17-to-one is the ratio of job interviews to job offers during a 
recession. During a recession, the average applicant will interview for 
17 different opportunities before he/she gets one job offer. When job 
openings are plentiful and candidates are in high demand, the ratio 
drops to 6-to-1, meaning it takes only 6 interviews to get an offer 
during the good times. The lesson here is that without interview skills, 
you'll waste 6 to 17 job opportunities before you get good enough at 
interviews to get an offer. (Article Continued Below) 

Below are six lies (assumptions) we tell ourselves about job interviews: 
"I'll do great on my job interviews because…" 

1. I'm Great at My Job. The skills required to get the job are 
fundamentally different from the skills required to do a job. If you 
have ever looked for a job you know this all too well. 

2. I'm a Good Communicator Being a good communicator is a good start, 
but most of our business communicating is one-on-one or in a setting 
where you are talking about work. During the job interview, you are 
often speaking with multiple interviewers and responding to 
thought-provoking questions about you and your talents. Convincing an 
interviewer of your abilities is a unique situation in the world of 
business communications. 

3. I've Interviewed Hundreds of People Being an interviewer is different 
from being interviewed. Just ask anyone who has been interviewed 
recently. I consult internationally to organizations on interviewer 
skills. I also present to thousands each year on job interviewing for 
the job seeker. While the interviewer and the interviewee are in the 
same room, each is playing a different role that requires different 
skills to be successful. It's a bit like dancing. One person leads while 
the other follows. The skills to lead are very different from the 
talents needed to follow. When each partner does his/her part, they 
dance beautifully. When the job applicant has the skills, he/she 
facilitates a conversation and usually gets the offer. 

4. I've Had Many Practice Interviews Learning by trial and error can 
teach you a few things about effective interviewing, but it wastes a lot 
of great job opportunities. Besides, practicing the same unproductive 
job interview ritual will only make you comfortable with ineffective 
habits that can really hurt your career. 

5. Interviewers Have Interviewing Skills Having traveled internationally 
to train interviewers, I can state with certainty that over 95% of 
interviewers are unskilled and have had no training on effective 
interviewing. That is exactly why interviewers still ask totally 
irrelevant and bogus questions like, “Tell me about yourself,” and 
“What are your strengths and weaknesses?” When an interviewers asks 
you one of these questions, you know they are completely unskilled at 
interviewing. 

6. The Most Qualified, Get Hired Most of the Time Eleven years as a 
recruiter taught me one truth about the job market: the most qualified 
person never gets hired. The reason is that who is the most qualified is 
a matter of interviewer opinions, assumptions, and personal bias. 
Additionally, a job description is actually a collection of guesses as 
to what the prerequisites are for a specific job. A job description is a 
way for the hiring manager to say, “I want to hire someone who has 
already done, many times, what I want him or her to do for me.” 

To secure a great job, you can either continue lying to yourself and go 
through 17 interviews before you get an offer, or you can invest the 
energy to learn successful job interviewing and significantly increase 
your odds of getting a great job sooner. 

Whether you try Interview Mastery or another job interview program is 
irrelevant. What really matters, is that you improve your interview 
skills. Common advice is everywhere on the Internet, but this common 
wisdom will only get you common results. 

If you don't want to invest any money in yourself, at least make a list 
of the interview questions you expect and those that you fear. Then ask 
a former colleague to mock interview you using the questions you listed. 
Record the mock interview using audio or video. You may be surprised at 
how you actually sound.Remember, the job interview is the most important 
moment in your job search and in your career. 

While your resume may get you to the interview, it is your job interview 
skills that will secure the job offer. Preparation and practice make all 
the difference in your performance because the most qualified person 
rarely gets the job. It's the person who interviews the best who wins 
the job offer. 

Good luck on your next interview. You're going to be awesome! Do you 
need to improve your interview skills? 

http://www.tlnt.com/2013/04/02/12-interview-questions-that-will-reveal-t 
he-very-best-candidates/ 

The queries cover everything from an MBA candidate’s undergraduate 
experience to an applicant’s leadership ability. Many of them are 
routine: Why do you want an MBA degree? Why do you want to come to 
Harvard to get it? Walk me through your resume? What are your strengths 
and weaknesses? How did you choose your undergraduate major and why? 

Almost always, however, there are a few unpredictable zingers, the kinds 
of questions that can take a person by surprise. These are questions 
that can easily throw an applicant completely off his or her game. They 
are designed to narrow down the more than 2,000 interviewees, chosen 
from 9,315 overall applicants, to about 1,100 who were accepted for one 
of the 941 seats in Harvard’s Class of 2015. 

What are the ten most unpredictable questions? 

The following queries, along with advice on how to approach the answers, 
are from current HBS students who have successfully gained admission 
into the school. They’re among 96 questions gathered by the staff of 
The Harbus, the school’s MBA student newspaper, for its just-published 
“Unofficial Harvard Business School Interview Guide.” 

Explain to me something you're working on as if I were an 
eight-year-old? 

This question gauges your ability to distill the essence of your job 
into very simply language. Think of how you would explain 
accretion/dilution to your grandmother at the Thanksgiving dinner table. 
Take the question quite literally, but don’t talk down to the 
interviewer. The ability to communicate complex information to laymen 
who may not share your grasp of the subject material happens to be a 
very important business skill. Clever metaphors can add color or flair 
(as in Sherman McCoy’s explanation to his daughter of what selling 
bonds entails in Tom Wolfe’s Bonfire of the Vanities). 

Describe something that you should start doing, do more of, and do less 
of? 

This question is driving at your ability to step outside of yourself and 
perform an honest appraisal. Can you see and act on your areas for 
improvement? Self-awareness and the ability to make sound judgments are 
important here. HBS is looking for someone who knows they don’t have 
it all figured out yet and is reflective about what they can strive 
towards. 

What's the one thing you'll never be as good at as others? 

If you respond ‘nothing’ to this, it indicates a lack of 
self-awareness. If your response is ‘modesty,’ you’d better hope 
your interviewer has a good sense of humor. There are so many honest, 
personalized answers to this question that it should not be difficult to 
come up with an example. Be honest: don’t try to hedge it or spin it. 
Just own it. 

