How to loose best performers


http://www.tlnt.com/2013/04/08/hiring-wisdom-top-10-ways-to-guarantee-your-best-people-will-quit/?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=linkedin&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+tlnt+%28TLNT%3A+The+Business+of+HR%29



10. Treat everyone equally. This may sound good, but your employees are not equal. Some are worth more because they produce more results. The key is not to treat them equally, it is to treat them all fairly.

9. Tolerate mediocrity. A-players don’t have to or want to play with a bunch of C-players.

8. Have dumb rules. I did not say have no rules, I said don’t have dumb rules. Great employees want to have guidelines and direction, but they don’t want to have rules that get in the way of doing their jobs or that conflict with the values the company says are important.

7. Don’t recognize outstanding performance and contributions. Remember Psychology 101 — Behavior you want repeated needs to be rewarded immediately.

6. Don’t have any fun at work. Where’s the written rule that says work has to be serious? If you find it, rip it to shreds and stomp on it because the notion that work cannot be fun is actually counterproductive. The workplace should be fun. Find ways to make work and/or the work environment more relaxed and fun and you will have happy employees who look forward to coming to work each day.

5. Don’t keep your people informed. You’ve got to communicate not only the good, but also the bad and the ugly. If you don’t tell them, the rumor mill will.

4. Micromanage. Tell them what you want done and how you want it done. Don’t tell them why it needs to be done and why their job is important. Don’t ask for their input on how it could be done better.

3. Don’t develop an employee retention strategy. Employee retention deserves your attention every day. Make a list of the people you don’t want to lose and, next to each name, write down what you are doing or will do to ensure that person stays engaged and on board.

2. Don’t do employee retention interviews. Wait until a great employee is walking out the door instead and conduct an exit interview to see what you could have done differently so they would not have gone out looking for another job.

1. Make your onboarding program an exercise in tedium. Employees are most impressionable during the first 60 days on the job. Every bit of information gathered during this time will either reinforce your new hire’s “buying decision” (to take the job) or lead to “Hire’s Remorse.”

The biggest cause of “Hire’s Remorse” is the dreaded Employee Orientation/Training Program. Most are poorly organized, inefficient, and boring. How can you expect excellence from your new hires if your orientation program is a sloppy amalgamation of tedious paperwork, boring policies and procedures, and hours of regulations and red tape?

To reinforce their buying decision, get key management involved on the first day and make sure your orientation delivers and reinforces these three messages repeatedly:

A. You were carefully chosen and we’re glad you’re here;

B. You’re now part of a great organization;

C. This is why your job is so important.




http://www.tlnt.com/2013/03/18/4-things-you-can-do-right-now-to-help-keep-your-best-employees/



4 Things You Can Do Right Now to Help Keep Your Best Employees


The first quarter of the calendar year is the best time to consider employee retention efforts.

Everyone is back from their holiday vacations, and work is in full swing. Your employees have had a little time off, and during that time your best employees have been assessing their careers, work, health/family issues and planning ahead.


Talented employees always have options

By now, your employees have also received their W-2s and annual benefits/total compensation statements and are considering the value of continuing to develop their careers with your company versus looking at other career options. What can you do to keep your high performers engaged and excited about your business?

You’re a good employer and follow all of these best management practices, right? Remember, your most talented performers always have options and will find other employment.

Other good but less talented employees might also disengage from your business but might not physically leave – they emotionally leave you while still showing up for work and giving you less than 100 percent of what they are capable of doing.

What you can do

These four tips are mostly common sense — and they make good business sense, too. Now is a good time to audit your management practices to keep your best people, so consider the following:

1. Be clear about your expectations and employee policies and follow them. Nothing causes more employee discontent than unclear rules and expectations and inconsistent application of established rules and policies.

This “shifting sands” scenario leaves employees feeling unsure of their own footing and questioning the firmness of the company’s foundation. And it is probably the number one reason why employees join or actively petition to form a union too.

2. Take a sincere and active interest in your employees and follow the “platinum rule.” All of the management experts advise us to be actively engaged with our employees, manage by walking around, getting to know our people as complete human beings and not just workers, etc. It sounds a little bit soft, but it does affect the bottom line.

Numerous studies have been done that show the positive goodwill managers receive when they take the time to get to know their employees and use the “platinum rule.” We all know the “golden rule” (treat others the way YOU would like to be treated). Today’s Gen X and Gen Y/Millennial workers expect more from their managers, so use the “platinum rule” (treat others the way THEY want to be treated).

To follow the platinum rule with your employees, you need to know them first.

A positive way to show respect

3. Communicate, communicate, communicate and show respect. This follows from the “platinum rule”. Keep your employees informed about the business and treat them like the adults they are. Actively seek input and welcome ideas for improvement.

Don’t talk about one employee with another, unless you are having discussions with other managers to improve a subordinate’s performance. Nothing erodes trust and respect more; when you discuss another employee’s faults openly with someone else, that person will wonder what you are saying about him behind his back.

A positive way to show respect is to follow up on employee complaints, questions and emails with genuine concern and care. Don’t ignore them or treat employee concerns as irrelevant.

4. Provide a competitive pay and benefits package, including options for career development and career enhancement. This is very important, but not at the top of the list. In fact, studies have shown that employees will work for less pay and benefits if they believe that they are working for an employer they believe in and where there are opportunities for career advancement.

Employers who provide fair and competitive wages and benefits are less susceptible to having employees leave them for the “pay issue” or “taking offers for employment they just couldn’t refuse.” Employees talk to other professionals in their field as well as their friends and neighbors from competing businesses and are quick to realize when they are being paid less than others.

To the extent that employees feel they are earning less, they will be more likely to believe that they can get more somewhere else. Participate in wage-benefit surveys when you can and make sure you are competitive in your industry and your location. If your position in the community is not at the top of the scale, be prepared to explain why, including the trade-offs of the other non-monetary advantages of working at your company.

Keeping your best employees to help you meet your business goals should be a key strategy, along with your sales, operations and financial goals. By following these four tips, you’ll be well on your way to a successful year!

Laura Kerekes is the Chief Knowledge Officer for ThinkHR. She applies her extensive human resources and general management experience to a broad range of services for her clients, including: strategic HR consulting, interim human resources executive assignments and compliance/OD/training. Contact her at lkerekes@thinkhr.com.





The Top 10 Mistakes Hiring Managers Make When Courting Candidates



It takes two to tango, but only one to tangle things up.

Here’s my list of the top 10 mistakes hiring managers make during the candidate courtship:

Damaged goods? — Plenty of good talent was downsized during the recession, through no fault of their own. More important is what the candidate has been doing with that time off — it might be an eye opener. For example, a hiring manager looking for business development talent may discover that a candidate has been launching an online side business, demonstrating exactly the kind of entrepreneurial spirit the job requires.

Talking too much – Sure, hiring managers should talk about their expectations, management style, etc. But it’s just as important for them to listen, and then probe deeper based on the answers they hear.

R-E-S-P-E-C-T – I’ve heard stories of hiring managers (HMs) arriving late to in-person interviews and even no-showing for phone interviews. HMs are busy, just as we all are, but even a small slight can send the wrong signal.

Scare tactics – This amounts to self-sabotage. Every job has challenges, but there are ways of framing that information. I’m not saying HMs shouldn’t be up front, but they shouldn’t talk the candidate out of accepting!

Love ‘em or leave ‘em, but don’t lead ‘em on – Pretending to be interested after the interview just to avoid being uncomfortable is spurious and, well, chicken. In fact, a couple of nuggets of feedback could prove to be golden for a candidate. For example, you might say, “Thanks for coming in, but I’m looking for someone with a stronger background in continuous improvement.”

What’s in it for them? – Most HMs are quick to list what they need in a candidate, but they also need to be able to explain why the position is a good fit for the candidate.

Show me the money – Some HMs think that as long as they know the salary range and the candidate’s salary history, they have enough to justify a low-ball offer. But hiring is a market transaction, and HMs need to consider market data as well.

Wouldn’t you like to know? — Don’t ask something like, “What year did you graduate from college?” That’s right: it opens the door for accusations of age discrimination. Encourage HMs to represent their company with professionalism, and also to be aware of legal and risk management issues in interviewing and recruiting.

Too many dates and too little commitment – That’s is a sure way to kill interest. HMs may want multiple people to interview a candidate, but they should try to schedule them all on the same day.

You said you’d call – If there is an unavoidable delay between the offer and the start date, HMs need to keep a new hire engaged. Recommend that the HM invite the candidate to a team event, or to meet for lunch.




http://www.tlnt.com/2013/03/27/6-ways-you-may-be-driving-your-team-crazy-and-dont-even-know-it/


6 Ways You May Be Driving Your Team Crazy and Don’t Even Know It


Even the very best leaders have habits that can sometimes make their teams completely crazy.

Beware of these favorites that have been known to cause mumbling under the breath, a twitch, or a knowing look within the team.

Go ahead and ask yourself: Do any of these look familiar?

1. One person’s problem becomes the team’s problem

Angie never turns her reports in on time and they are never accurate. Sounds like it’s time to call the team together for a meeting to emphasize the importance of timely, accurate reports! Meanwhile, everyone knows its Angie’s problem and they are wondering why you don’t.

Save everyone time and have a conversation with Angie about expectations. It isn’t a team problem, it’s an Angie problem.

2. Managing by email

Have a performance issue? Send an email.

See errors that are causing problems with a client? Send an e-mail.

Want to check in on the anxious new just-out-of-college hire? Yes, send an email.

In business today, email is clearly the communication channel of choice. But, you need to slow down and recognize when it just doesn’t fit the situation. Conversations are needed for the sensitive, the critical, or when you need to show support.

Email can only do so much, so show some email restraint. Pick up the phone. If you are in the same office, you could even talk in person!

3. Keep giving ideas when the team is implementing

There is a time and place for new ideas — and it’s not when your team is communicating the new process to the rest of the organization, or the day before the new product is being introduced.

Agree when you are moving out of idea stage and into delivery and execution. Stand by it. Be a role model and save your new ideas for 2.0. Know when to stop.

4. Assuming that hitting send = same time they’ll answer

Some issues are urgent and require immediate attention, but most don’t. Recognize that your team has priorities and commitments that are impacted if you expect an immediate response on everything.

Respect their ability to respond and get back to you in a timely manner. It doesn’t have to be this instant. And, don’t be the one who always remembers a top priority Friday at 5 pm. Just don’t.

5.  Give 2 people the exact same request just to speed things up

Yes, there are priorities that are constantly on your mind. But, giving the same assignment to 2-3 people won’t get it finished any faster.

In fact, you’ll create confusion, double work and a ticked off team. Lay out clear responsibilities, and the outcomes you want, and let them get moving.

6. Keep rescheduling your meetings with them

Your team then has to change their schedules every time you do this, so you don’t even see all of the ripple effects with customers and deadlines.

Of course, there are times when you have to move things around, but if you are a serial re-scheduler – it’s time to look in the mirror.

Maybe you need to meet less often, shorten the time or agree to talk when you need to talk. But, honor your commitments whatever they are.

Even good leaders and great managers have habits that can drive their teams crazy. We know you do a lot of things right, but doing away with these favorites will make your life easier and you a lot more popular.

Trust me on that.


