	Bull Shit Intolerance

Bullshitters:

Shoaib, It sounds to me like you've been attacked by a marketer. I'm making 
assumptions here, but "productizable" may not even be a word and I doubt you'd hear 
something like that in programming class.
 
I have been asked by managers and marketers who don't know what I do to "productize" an
application. It must be a word they made up on the golf course to define a process of 
taking a single-use application and making it desirable and salable to the mass market.
 
Maybe it's a term they think means "a product that can be shrink-wrapped and sold by the 
millions." Maybe they don't even know what they're asking you.
 
Don't be embarrassed to ask whoever used that word on you to define it. I'd like to hear 
their definition. Chances are it doesn't mean any of the things I think it means and, 
since it has no definition in the dictionary, they can make it mean anything they want.
 
Check out the online "jargon" dictionaries for different interpretations of what 
"Productizable Application" might mean. My bet is "rhymes with orange."
 
It's better to ask "which is better, C# or VB.NET" in this forum than to ask what a 
"productizable application" is. At least there are a lot more people who think they know 
the answer to the former question. I sure don't know the answer to the latter. 



Vasoconstriction
lever extension


Bullshitting: Lessons from the Masters
How the great bullshitters pull it off.
Published on May 15, 2009 by Stanton Peele in Addiction in Society
One of the amusing sidelights of the Bernie Madoff fiasco is how independent 
analysts repeatedly tipped the SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) about 
Madoff - in fact, the SEC conducted several investigations of Madoff's operation - 
but the agency never discovered Madoff was a fraud.
The patron saint of these tipsters was Harry Markopolos, who began warning 
regulators about Madoff in 1999. Markopolos testified before Congress: "The 
SEC was never capable of catching Mr. Madoff. He could have gone to $100 billion. 
It took me about five minutes to figure out he was a fraud."

Without enumerating all 29 red flags Markopolos identified in a 2005 memo to the 
SEC deducing that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme (perhaps its title, "The World's
Largest Hedge Fund is a Fraud," was too subtle), we can readily see the indisputable
indicators of Madoff's fakery. But, more important, we can gain insight into his 
genius as a bullshitter.

Among the clear signs of fraud were the Madoff fund's unbelievably positive, 
and consistent, returns despite market downturns; the lack of oversight of his 
performance and operations by any independent auditors; the opaqueness - and 
unbelievability - of his claims about his investment strategy; the secrecy he 
insisted on from third parties; etc.

But what is most interesting to psychologists in Markopolos' memo is the last, 
29th red flag: Madoff would tell any new investor that, although he was so successful 
his fund was closed to all but a few fortunate insiders, he would make an exception 
for that lucky individual. Agents for Madoff proudly repeated this preposterous claim 
as a sign of how well connected they were - "I'm a special friend of Bernie's."

Now, we are getting to the heart of what makes for a master bullshitter. Time and again, 
SEC regulators showed up at Madoff's offices and conducted long interviews with him in 
which he completely snowed them, when a simple examination of relevant documents would 
indicate they were pure fabrications.

In fact, it isn't hard to pull this kind of deception off if you just follow a few 
simple rules.  This list is generated from peak bullshitting performers like Madoff, 
alleged fellow Ponzi schemer Sir R. Allen Stanford (whom the SEC had been investigating 
for four years but only pulled the plug on after the Madoff scandal broke), and - 
God bless him - Donald Trump*.

1. Always remember - people are afraid to challenge you. Both because it violates 
social propriety, and because of their fears that their own secrets will be found out, 
people don't question others to their face. So simply count on being allowed to mouth 
off and make outrageous claims with no fear of being contradicted - or with objectors 
themselves facing ostracism.

2. Point to your legitimate successes or bona fides. Stanford was a genuine knight 
(mediated by Antiguan authorities). Madoff had been president of the NASDAQ stock 
exchange's board of directors. There are big buildings with Trump's name gaudily 
plastered all over them.  So simply trot out your past successes (magnified as much 
as possible) at every opportunity, and add on whatever bullshit you wish.

3. Act arrogant - keep it up. Although arrogance might seem to work against you by 
offending people, it is the supreme intimidation technique - people are readily cowed 
when someone acts like he is better, smarter, more powerful than they are (ergo, the 
Donald Trump phenomenon). The only danger is if you act modestly or question yourself, 
because people WILL attack weakness. In fact, even when you are being arrested (as in 
Stanford's case), attack your accusers.

4. Claim esoteric knowledge or techniques. It doesn't matter if the formula you use 
to explain your success makes no sense - people aren't secure enough to challenge 
something they can't understand. In fact, it pays to make the secret to your success 
as incomprehensible as possible while linking it to something beyond questioning, 
like say relativity, quantum physics, evolution or, for the old fashioned, God.

5. Always delay the day of reckoning. Contrary to the idea that, if your are 
standing on a foundation of bullshit, you will being to sink, send questioners and 
doubters away. In the interim, they will become re-intimidated by how highly your 
bullshit is regarded. When they return (if they have the guts), simply go back to 
square one, making the same claims with the same evidence, and in the same arrogant, 
don't-question-me tone.

Follow these few simple rules of bullshitting, and your success is guaranteed!



http://truetalk.typepad.com/truetalk/2005/03/liars_lie_bulls.html