http://internsover40.blogspot.in/2010/03/simple-5-tips-when-sending-creating.html#






http://www.payscale.com/
http://www.payscale.com/ask-for-a-raise
http://www.payscale.com/ask-for-a-raise-during-recession

1) Time is your most special commodity, you can´t buy it or have it back
 
2) Do all you can do to accomplish your tasks
 
3) Give your heart and soul every single day
 
4) Break all your﻿ mental barriers to get where you want to be
 
And, my favorite: BE THE BEST PERSON THAT YOU CAN BE


http://www.bullhornreach.com/article/view/20760?referer=www.linkedin.com&shortlink=756506



http://www.linkedin.com/news?viewArticle=&articleID=5579439607218442255&gid=2013391&type=member&item=101535020&articleURL=http%3A%2F%2Falltypejobs1%2Eblogspot%2Ecom%2F2012%2F02%2F6-ways-job-search-has-changed-post%2Ehtml&urlhash=kzrj&goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_101535020



Gratitude 

The Highest ROI Management Tool in Business August 19, 2013 91,497 
1,294445 

inShare 5,576 This image was recently emailed to one of the senior-most 
technology executives at LinkedIn. In case you can't read it, the text 
says: 

"Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success. 
If you love what you are doing, you will be successful." 

Contrary to what you might be thinking, the email didn't come from an 
eternally optimistic employee who cheerleads regardless of outcomes or a 
feel-good management coach whose office is plastered with posters 
defining "persistence," "teamwork," or "dedication." 

It came from an engineer whose team has worked tirelessly over a period 
of years to develop and maintain an important back-end technology for 
the company. It's the kind of technology that just works, and 
subsequently, makes LinkedIn work. It's also the kind of technology that 
is so fundamental to what we do that it becomes easy to overlook -- 
unless, of course, it's not operating as expected. Then the team is 
inundated with questions about what's wrong, when it will be fixed, and 
how they can put measures in place to ensure it doesn't break again. 

The engineer who sent the image to the executive added his own short 
message: 

"This is what I feel after reading [your] email." 

Other members of the engineer's team sent emails with similarly effusive 
sentiments. If you've ever worked closely with a team of highly 
talented, hardcore engineers you know that this show of unbridled 
happiness can be a bit unusual (to put it mildly.) So what had gotten 
them so enthused? An email written by the executive explaining how 
important the team was, how much value they had created, and his 
appreciation for their consistent diligence, perseverance, and 
excellence. Essentially, they were responding to a simple "Thank you." 
The highest ROI management tool I know is one that is available to 
everyone, costs essentially nothing, and is a proven driver of workplace 
productivity. That tool is gratitude. 

As obvious as this may sound to some, it is oftentimes overlooked, 
particularly in companies and among teams for whom seemingly no results 
are good enough and no bar is ever set high enough. Yet, developing a 
high-performance culture and one that encourages the expression of 
gratitude shouldn't be at odds. To the contrary, recognition can be an 
invaluable source of motivation and subsequently inspire people to do 
their best work. Looking back on my career, I've seen and experienced 
this dynamic more times than I can count, and conversely, have witnessed 
the negative repercussions of managers who take their teams for granted. 

Here are a few things to consider the next time you're inclined to show 
your appreciation for a job well done: 

1. Be thoughtful 

Not all thank yous are created equal. Be thoughtful about the how. 
Sometimes it's best to do it in person, in the moment. Other times, an 
email or call might make sense, especially if the person is remote. Some 
of the most memorable thank yous I've received were handwritten notes (a 
few of which I still keep on a table behind my desk in the office). 

Reid Hoffman, the founder of LinkedIn, has elevated this kind of 
recognition to an art form. For example, mention offhandedly to him that 
you like dark chocolate, and don't be surprised if several months later, 
he returns back from his latest trip to Europe with a few specialty bars 
he purchased for you, inevitably delivered with a resounding thanks for 
the positive difference you're making to the company. 

2. Be genuine 

More often than not, the words you communicate are not nearly as 
important as the thought and energy behind them. The person on the 
receiving end can tell the difference between someone going through the 
motions and deeply heartfelt appreciation. When it comes to expressing 
gratitude, always be 100% genuine. 

For example, the next time an email thread starts up congratulating a 
team on their most recent win, try to refrain from adding the fifth or 
sixth "Great job!" and give some thought to why you're appreciative for 
their specific accomplishment. Conveying the latter will make all the 
difference. 

Recently, I was asked to join one of our teams in celebrating their 
recent launch of a major product initiative. In addition to the standard 
t-shirts, cupcakes, and group photo, the team member who organized the 
event also asked another exec and me to share the best compliment we had 
heard about the product, and some of the key learnings we took away from 
the launch. The team was so appreciative of the positive feedback that 
we ended up receiving thank-yous for our thank-yous. 

3. Pick your spots 

When thinking about when to give thanks, make sure to apply The 
Goldilocks Principle: Compliment someone too often and your words will 
ultimately ring hollow; don't say thank-you enough and your top talent 
will ultimately feel so under-appreciated you'll potentially face 
retention issues. However, express appreciation at just the right time 
and you'll make a huge difference in the way that person thinks about 
their role and what it means to be a part of your team. 

For those more quantitatively inclined, there has actually been research 
done on the optimal ratio to achieve when communicating positive vs. 
negative feedback. It's called the Losada Ratio (and the answer is 
2.9x.) 

4. Solicit suggestions 

When your organization is smaller, and everyone is located in one place, 
it's fairly easy to be aware of who is doing what and is most deserving 
of praise. However, as a successful organization inevitably scales to 
larger numbers of employees and multiple offices around the world, it 
can become more challenging to stay on top of the day-to-day progress of 
the team. One way of overcoming this dynamic is by making sure you 
remain in the flow of information regarding their wins, e.g. dashboards, 
wikis, weekly updates, etc. At LinkedIn, we conduct a global all-hands 
every other week which provides a natural channel to identify and 
recognize some of the team's most important accomplishments. 

Another effective technique is to just ask. From time to time, remind 
your directs to mention individuals or teams you may have less direct 
exposure to, but who they feel are deserving of a special call-out. The 
further away from headquarters they sit, and the more junior they are, 
the better. You'll be amazed at how appreciative the people on the 
receiving end of those calls and emails will be. 

5. Learn how to take a compliment 

The better you are at receiving a compliment, the more effective you'll 
be at giving one. Many people struggle when on the receiving end of a 
kind word, inevitably looking down at their shoes, shuffling 
uncomfortably, and mumbling something about how it was truly a team 
effort. While humility is a highly valued trait, disconnection is not, 
yet the latter is typically what happens when these scenarios play out. 

The next time someone compliments you on a job well done, try grounding 
yourself from the feet up, look the person straight in the eye, and let 
them know how much it means to you. That sense of recognition and 
connection is what we're all trying to achieve. It's also what 
ultimately makes the difference between a perfunctory thank you and an 
expression of gratitude the recipient won't soon forget. 

One last note: Every now and again, the same senior tech executive I 
mentioned earlier will remind me of the first time I shared my views 
with him on the importance of gratitude. Despite the fact that 
conversation took place nearly eight years ago, he thanks me every time. 
The most recent example occurred just a couple of weeks ago. It was 
ultimately the reason I wrote this post. 

