
http://www.infoworld.com/d/application-development/16-ways-torture-developers-215773?page=0,2&utm_source=linkedin&utm_medium=social&utm_content=19954db2-ed25-4b3b-83d2-e5458dfaa03c


What makes a great .net programmer?
8 days ago
Like CommentFollow Flag More
Tushar Panchal, Attiya Fathalla and 2 others like this
8 comments
 
Follow Dmitri
Dmitri Soroka • clean structure/syntax. making debugging simpler. :) game Dev code is nasty but faster. while software Dev is clean and organized for next one to come in and adjust. also always comment on code :) if code used more then 1 time make function calls :) and etc.
6 days ago• Like3
 
Follow Jonathan
Jonathan Crossland • What makes a great .NET programmer is the same as what makes a great programmer. There should not be a distinction. 

A great programmer 
- Creates code that accomplishes the objectives 
- Is thoughtful over implicit as much as explicit requirements 
- Reduces project time-frame and/or expenditure 
- Does not embellish code or functionality, but simplifies where possible. 
- Communicates in Patterns (in code, documentation) 
- Balances the following 7 design / coding principles (Ammerse) 

AgileDesign 
is to alleviate the stress of change (in code, in business). 
MinimalDesign 
is a design that is small, efficient and elegant. 
MaintainableDesign 
is an easily maintainable design and implementation. 
EnvironmentalDesign 
is to be friendly to the environment, not pollute (works with othe tech, layers, existing code). 
ReachableDesign 
must be a reachable, attainable goal.(complete within a time-frame) 
SolvingDesign 
must solve the problems it set out to solve. (functional code) 
ExtensibleDesign 
is to allow extensibility to solve other problems later.
6 days ago• Like3
 
Follow Ivan
Ivan Sazonov • I think the .net part of the question should be taken out :)
5 days ago• Like
 
Follow John
John Gwynn • I would remove both .net and great from the query replacing it with good. As to what makes a good programmer, while creativity and craftsmanship do not hurt, it is the willingness to engage in hard work that is more important. No matter what skill level you find yourself at, if you do your homework you find your programming skills evolve over time and that is a constant.
5 days ago• Like2
 
Follow Ivan
Ivan Sazonov • When you suddenly realize the last time you ate was at 3pm and the sun is rising.... and you're still at it..... lol
4 days ago• Like
 
Follow Konrad
Konrad Jaskowiec • I wouldn't take the ".NET" from the inquiry, and add those points to the answer: 

- understands GC well enough to locate and solve memory leak problems 
- understands how adding a resource to a class in a hierarchy changes the semantics of the whole hierarchy 
- makes good interops (it's a basic skill but I am sure not everyone has it, whereas every one who calls himself a good c# .NET developer should ) 
- understands reflection well enough to take advantage of it instead of making your project worse due to misuse of that mechanism
4 days ago• Like1
 
Follow Jeff
Jeff Irick • Jonathan, your first sentence says it all. John, I couldn't agree more.
3 days ago• Like
 
Follow Jeff B.
Jeff B. Cromwell, PhD • Passion and the pursuit of perfection.