Stop Using These 16 Terms to Describe Yourself Jeff HadenJanuary 17, 
2013 

inShare 11K Like (2,773) Comment (1,528) 

Picture this. You meet someone new. "What do you do?" she asks. 

"I'm an architect," you say. 

"Oh, really?" she answers. "Have you designed any buildings I've seen?" 

"Possibly," you reply. "We did the new student center at the 
university..." 

"Oh wow," she says. "That's a beautiful building..." 

Without trying -- without blowing your own horn -- you've made a great 
impression. 

Now picture this. You meet someone new. "What do you do?" he asks. 

"I'm a passionate, innovative, dynamic provider of architectural 
services with a collaborative approach to creating and delivering 
outstanding world-class client and user experiences." 

All righty then. 

Do you describe yourself differently – on your website, promotional 
materials, or especially on social media – than you do in person? Do you 
use cheesy clichés and overblown superlatives and breathless adjectives? 

Do you write things about yourself you would never have the nerve to 
actually say? 

Here are some words that are great when other people use them to 
describe you – but you should never use to describe yourself: 

1. "Innovative." Most companies claim to be innovative. Most people 
claim to be innovative. Most are, however, not. (I'm definitely not.) 
That's okay, because innovation isn't a requirement for success. 

If you are innovative, don't say it. Prove it. Describe the products 
you've developed. Describe the processes you've modified. 

Give us something real so your innovation is unspoken but evident... 
which is always the best kind of evident to be. 

2. "World-class." Usain Bolt: world-class sprinter, Olympic medals to 
prove it. Lionel Messi: world-class soccer (I know, football) player, 
four Ballon d'Or trophies to prove it. 

But what is a world-class professional or company? Who defines 
world-class? In your case, probably just you. 

3. "Authority." Like Margaret Thatcher said, "Power is like being a 
lady; if you have to say you are, you aren't." Show your expertise 
instead. 

"Presented at TEDxEast " or "Predicted 50 out of 50 states in 2012 
election" (Hi Nate!) indicates a level of authority. Unless you can 
prove it, "social media marketing authority" might simply mean you spend 
way too much time worrying about your Klout score. 

4. "Results oriented." Really? Some people actually focus on doing what 
they are paid to do? We had no idea. 

5. "Global provider." The majority of businesses can sell goods or 
services worldwide; the ones that can't are fairly obvious. 

Only use "global provider" if that capability is not assumed or obvious; 
otherwise you just sound like a small company trying to appear big. 

6. "Motivated." Check out Chris Rock's response (not safe for work or 
the politically correct) to people who say they take care of their kids. 
Then substitute words like "motivated." 

Never take credit for things you are supposed to do – or supposed to be. 

7. "Creative." See particular words often enough and they no longer make 
an impact. "Creative" is one of them. (Use finding "creative" references 
in random LinkedIn profiles as a drinking game and everyone will lose -- 
or win, depending on your perspective.) 

"Creative" is just one example. Others include extensive, effective, 
proven, influential, team player... some of those terms may truly 
describe you, but since they are also being used to describe everyone 
they've lost their impact. 

8. "Dynamic." If you are "vigorously active and forceful," um, stay 
away. 

9. "Guru." People who try to be clever for the sake of being clever are 
anything but. (Like in #8.) Don't be a self-proclaimed ninja, sage, 
connoisseur, guerilla, wonk, egghead... it's awesome when your customers 
affectionately describe you that way. 

Refer to yourself that way and it's obvious you're trying way too hard 
to impress other people – or yourself. 

10. "Curator." Museums have curators. Libraries have curators. Tweeting 
links to stuff you find interesting doesn't make you a curator... or an 
authority or a guru. 

11. "Passionate." I know many people disagree, but if you say you're 
incredibly passionate about, oh, incorporating elegant design aesthetics 
into everyday objects, to me you sound over the top. 

The same is true if you're passionate about developing long-term 
customer solutions. Try the words focus, concentration, or 
specialization instead. 

Or try "love," as in, "I love incorporating an elegant design aesthetic 
in everyday objects." For whatever reason, that works for me. Passion 
doesn't. (But maybe that's just me.) 

12. "Unique." Fingerprints are unique. Snowflakes are unique. You are 
unique – but your business probably isn't. That’s fine, because 
customers don't care about unique; they care about "better." 

Show you're better than the competition and in the minds of your 
customers you will be unique. 

13. "Incredibly..." Check out some random bios and you'll find plenty of 
further-modified descriptors: "Incredibly passionate," "profoundly 
insightful," "extremely captivating..." isn't it enough to be insightful 
or captivating? Do you have to be profoundly insightful? 

If you must use over-the-top adjectives, spare us the further 
modification. Trust that we already get it. 

14. "Serial entrepreneur." A few people start multiple, successful, 
long-term businesses. They are successful serial entrepreneurs. 

The rest of us start one business that fails or does okay, try something 
else, try something else, and keep on rinsing and repeating until we 
find a formula that works. Those people are entrepreneurs. Be proud if 
you're "just" an entrepreneur. You should be. 

15. "Strategist." I sometimes help manufacturing plants improve 
productivity and quality. There are strategies I use to identify areas 
for improvement but I'm in no way a strategist. Strategists look at the 
present, envision something new, and develop approaches to make their 
vision a reality. 

I don't create something new; I apply my experience and a few proven 
methodologies to make improvements. 

Very few people are strategists. Most "strategists" are actually 
coaches, specialists, or consultants who use what they know to help 
others. 99% of the time that's what customers need – they don't need or 
even want a strategist. 

16. "Collaborative." You won't just decide what's right for me and force 
me to buy it? 

If your process is designed to take my input and feedback, tell me how 
that works. Describe the process. Don't claim we'll work together -- 
describe how we'll work together. 

That’s my list -- clearly subjective and definitely open to criticism. 

So, more importantly, what do you think? What would you add or remove 
from my list? 

The way we describe ourselves is critical to making a good first 
impression, so let others benefit from your perspective in the comments 
below. 

More on making a great impression: 































The Best Promotion Is Never Self Promotion
Once you've been in the spotlight, it's really hard to step back into the shadows--but you should.


shutterstock images
 
382
inShare
 




Promoting yourself is easy. All it takes is a little guts, a little determination, and in extreme cases, very little self-awareness.

We all try, to some degree, to promote ourselves. That's why we're all experts at picking out the self-promoters, shameless or otherwise. And that's why self-promotion is rarely effective.

There's a much better way. Here's a story told by the comedian, actor, and author Albert Brooks in Vanity Fair about an appearance on "The Tonight Show:"

There was always that last two minutes where Johnny was asking people, "Thank you for coming--what do you have coming up?" And during the last commercial break Jack Benny leaned over to Johnny Carson and said, "When we get back, ask me where I'm going to be, will you?"

So they came back. Johnny said, "I want to thank Albert. Jack, where are you going to be performing?"

And Jack Benny said, "Never mind about me--this is the funniest kid I've ever seen."

And it was this profound thing. Like, Oh, that's how you lead your life. Be generous and you can be the best person who ever lived.

You have the same ability to promote with your employees, your customers, your vendors--basically anyone--but it's easy to lose sight of that when your primary focus is on crafting a business image, building a personal brand, or just protecting your professional turf.

Entrepreneurs are especially vulnerable to glory hogging since early on a small business is a reflection of its owner and its success often depends on the owner's ability to build a reputation for knowledge and expertise. Once you've stood in the spotlight for a while, it's really hard to step back into the shadows.

But it can be done. And it's easy. A couple examples:

Instead of blogging about your company's success, talk about a customer--but don't make it "salesy."

Instead, share how a customer did something smart. Share how a customer took a different approach to an old problem.

Helping others by promoting their expertise or success is reason enough to do it. But if you need another reason, the fact that you work with such smart and savvy people reflects well on you.

Instead of leading an implementation meeting, turn it over to the employee who spearheaded the project. Don't be tempted to somehow include yourself in the introduction; just say, "Next week we're rolling out our new scheduling system, so Mary will walk you through the process." Turn it over to Mary, sit down, and shut up.

Everyone already knows you're in charge; the fact that your employees get things done reflects well on you.

Today, promote someone else.

Then they win--and so do you.
























11 Words You Should Never Use in Sales or Marketing
Want to stand out from the pack? Stop sounding like the pack.


shutterstock images
 
1,392
inShare
 




Samples are helpful. Demos are often effective. But what is the primary tool used to convince potential customers to buy?

Words.

Whether spoken or written, words make sales happen.

Or not.

Too many salespeople (and marketers and advertisers) use the same words to describe their products and services. Pretend I'm a potential customer or client.

Here's how I react when you use the following words:

"Customer focused."

Talk about redundant; should you be anything but customer focused?

If your goal is to imply that other providers are not customer focused, tell me how: Faster response time, greater availability, customized processes or systems... tell me in concrete terms how you will meet my specific needs. (If you don't know my needs and therefore can't address them, shame on you.)

"Best in class."

There are two problems with that phrase: Who defined your "class," and who determined you were the "best" in it?

My guess is you did.

Still, maybe you really are that awesome. So prove it. Describe your accomplishments, awards, results, etc.

As a customer I don't need best in class, I need best for me--so tell me, in objective terms, how you can provide the best value for my needs.

"Low-hanging fruit."

You say, "We'll start with the low-hanging fruit." I hear, "We'll start with really easy stuff you are too stupid to recognize or too lazy to do yourself."

No one wants to hear they have low-hanging fruit. Just describe, in cost/benefit terms, how you prioritized your list of projects or activities.

"Exceed expectations."

That's admirable goal, and one every business should aspire to, but exceeding expectations is an internal goal. Tell me you will exceed expectations and exceeded expectations instantly becomes my expectation. (I know that's kinda Zen.)

Tell me what you will do, every time. If you consistently pull that off, I'll be delighted.

Always let the customer judge whether you go above and beyond.

"Unique."

The ever-increasing pace of commoditization means few products or services have no like or equal for long. If I'm considering hiring your firm or buying your products, "unique" (like "exclusive") sounds good but describes nothing.

Instead tell me, in concrete terms, how you are better.

"Value added."

This term is often used to imply I'll get something for no or very little incremental cost. That means what I will receive isn't value added--it's part of the overall deal.

So tell me the deal, explain all the options and add-ons, and help me figure out how I can take full advantage of what you provide.

"Expert."

Margaret Thatcher once said, "Power is like being a lady; if you have to say you are, you aren't." Show your expertise instead.

"Social media expert" often reads as "We have Twitter and Facebook accounts and even know how to use them!

"Implemented social media campaigns for ACME that generated..." lets potential customers evaluate your level of expertise and your suitability for their needs.

"Seasoned."

Experience is only a partial indicator of expertise. If you're a contractor you may have built 100 homes... but that doesn't mean you did a good job.

Any reference to experience should immediately quantify that experience.

"Exceptional ROI."

We all seek a return on investments and we all love a great ROI. But without access to my numbers you can't accurately calculate my ROI. Therefore your estimates are either theoretical or based on another customer's results. Either way, I know your estimates are incredibly optimistic and that my results will definitely vary.

"Provides an exceptional ROI" reads as "...you're a terrible businessperson if you don't do this."

Show the costs, don't hide anything, and trust me to calculate my own ROI. If I'm not smart enough to do so, I probably don't have purchase authority anyway.

"Partner."

Long-term business relationships are great, but we will never be partners because while your hand will reach into my pocket, my hand will never reach into yours.

Still, maybe one day I will see you as a quasi-partner... but that's something I will decide on my own based on your performance, not on your marketing.

"Turn-key."

I love a turn-key solution as much as the next guy, but few solutions truly are.

No matter how comprehensive the offering I always wind up participating more than I was led to expect, so when I hear "turn key" I'm naturally skeptical... that is, unless you thoroughly break down what you will provide and what my participation will be, both during implementation and after.

Turn-key is in the eye of the beholder.

The customer is always the beholder.















































1. You give only because you expect to receive.

Connect with people on LinkedIn and you can write a recommendation that gets displayed on their profiles.

That's awesome, unless you're only giving recommendations because you want one in return. Then it's tacky.

For example, say you're a plumber. A pipe burst and we call you at three in the morning. You immediately rush over, fix the leak, and save us from inadvertently converting our basement into a swimming pool. I'm extremely grateful and I write you a deservedly glowing recommendation.

Then I ask you to write a recommendation for me.

The problem is, you don't know me professionally. The only thing you really know about me is that I could be heard in the background screaming like a little girl when my wife called you. How can you recommend me? You can't. You shouldn't. And you shouldn't be asked to.

Give sincere recommendations. Recommend because you want to, not because you expect to receive a recommendation in return. The people who know and respect you may return the "favor." If so, great; if not, also great. Either way you've given credit where credit is due.

2. You don't give at all.

Great networking is based on giving, not receiving. Endorsements are an easy way to give: Go to someone's profile, click a few boxes, maybe click a few plus signs--done.

Endorse another person's skills and you not only give them a virtual pat on the back, you may also help them show up in search results.

Show other people you respect their skills. Sure, it may be a good networking move, but making other people feel good about themselves is reason enough.

3. You wait until you have a need.

If you put off making solid connections until the day you need something--customers, employees, a job, or just a better network--then you've waited too long. Think about where you someday want to be and start now to build the connections, the network, and the following that will support those goals.

Building great connections is a parallel, not a serial, task. Later is always too late.

4. You forget where you are.

Most people use LinkedIn as a professional social media platform. So when you want to leave comments, share material, etc., consider letting your freak flag fly somewhere else. You never know when a potential employer, employee, customer, vendor--anyone--may notice.

Safe, at least where being professional is concerned, means never having to feel sorry.

5. You ignore the signs.

LinkedIn clearly aspires to be more than a place where millions of professionals make connections.

In less than two years LinkedIn Today has become an extremely powerful news aggregator. Landing an article on a category page generates a flood of traffic; landing an article on the home page can crash your servers.

LinkedIn Today now provides original content from "thought leaders" and allows you--whether you are connected to the person or not--to follow those individuals, comment directly on their posts, share their content with your network, etc. Currently only "influencers" can be followed (Richard Branson has over a million) but it's safe to assume that someday all users will be able to directly post their own content and build their own followings.

What's next? I don't know. All I know is something will be next. Pay attention, look ahead, and start positioning yourself now.

Smart people get the most out of a tool. Really smart people do too, but they also plan for how to get the most out of what a tool may become.

6. You don't share.

The easiest way to frequently update and "customize" your profile is to share. The articles, blog posts, videos, etc. you share appear in your Activity stream, giving other people a great look at what you're doing and what you're interested in and creating a running journal where others can learn more about you.

Plus your connections can respond by liking or leaving comments, which helps you avoid another mistake...

7. You don't care.

Want to know what your connections, your network, or your audience thinks is important? Want a better sense of interests and perspectives you share?

Share, and then watch your Activity feed. See what people "like." Read the comments.

The only way to better know people is to listen to what they have to say. Make it easy to listen: Share, see what strikes a chord and what doesn't. It's the perfect way to get direct feedback and build stronger connections. See your Activity feed as real-time feedback from the people you reach--and want to keep reaching.

8. You ignore your team's network.

Relationships, referrals, and rapport are powerful ways to open doors.

The people you work with have great networks. (If they don't, encourage them to start building.) When you're looking for an "in," see if someone on your team already has the right connection.

Chances are they do.

9. You go generic.

"I'd like to add you to my professional network on LinkedIn."

Yeah, I know you're busy. Still, is using the auto-generated LinkedIn connection text really the best you can do?

Delete the generic message and take a few seconds to say how you know the person. Or to say what you have in common. Or to say something complimentary. Unless you're just trying to pad your numbers, you have a good reason reason for wanting to connect, so say what that reason is.

Making real connections starts with the word "real."