
Mistakes That Startups Make #5: Vision 

A lot of us have come up with new ideas. The more we think about our new idea the more we expand the idea and define how the idea will be developed, deployed and sold. Eventually, we have a fully fleshed out vision of the future for our idea. 

Now that we have a vision of our idea's future implementation, we want to make it 
real. And that is when many startups begin to fail.
 
Presenting a complete vision of a product to investors with no intermediate 
marketing stages often will result in little or no funding. The risk of failure 
is too high. And the longer the time period is needed to bring the vision to market 
\the more likely it is that the market will shift and the product will no longer 
deliver the same dreamed about market impact and resulting revenues.
 
Developing a complete vision with no intermediate marketing stages makes the 
assumption that the startup's founders have a complete understanding of the 
potential consumer's needs and wants as well as the optimal packaging and presentation 
of the product. Many startups deliver complete vision products to market only to discover 
they have made invalid assumptions or that new competitor's products have shifted the 
consumer's expectations.
 
I know of startups that have actually turned down funding because the founders of 
the startup felt that the investors did not 'fully understand the vision and might 
limit the vision'. After years of searching, these startups have yet to receive funding 
under the terms of the 'vision'. Many of these startups will probably never get funding 
and their vision will never be realized.
 
The same thing happens to many (most? ALL!) established companies. Millions of dollars 
and years of development time are spent on products that when brought to market are a 
complete failure. If the product had been staged more appropriately the company would 
probably have identified the issues early on and been able to shift the development 
path to a more appropriate vision.
 
A complete vision can sometimes lead to complete blindness. 

========
 Over 2000 subscribers to the 'Mistakes that Startups Make' mailing list!
 
Join your fellow entrepreneurs, investors and corporate partners from 17 countries and 
growing.
 
Next week, I will begin publishing the newsletter with "Mistakes" adding one or more new 
ones per week. My current series of "Mistakes" articles totals over 125 (not all are 
written yet).
 
http://www.mailermailer.com/x?oid=1037499t
 
Please be sure and confirm your email address. You will receive a confirmation email 
after you register.
 
Thanks for reading!
 David...
 
Former Chief Technologist at Hewlett-Packard and the Chief Product Architect at Verizon. 
I hold 25 granted patents referenced by over 400 other patents. I have talked to 
thousands of startups over the last 15 years, have started five companies and have 
three startups in stealth.

1 day ago