searched over all Internet for good GTK# based charting library, which
could be fully integrated to Monodevelop and his GUI designer. 
I've found ZedGraph, but it was poorly documented, and without integration
to GUI designer. That is true for NPlot and NPlot.Gtk too.
Could anybody recommend a library, which would meet all my requirements?

http://netcontrols.org/nplot/wiki/index.php?n=Main.Documentation



on't think there's a library that meets your criteria, at least not a free one.  
I've conducted similar searches in the past and come up empty.  To try to meet some of 
my needs I forked NPlot and started a new project which I call Florence (I told the NPlot 
creators what I was interested in doing, and they asked me to rebrand rather than do it 
under the NPlot name).  You can find it here: https://github.com/scottstephens/Florence

I've found the NPlot charting functionality to be sufficient, the two capabilities that 
I wanted were to be able to write charting code that could work within either WinForms or
Gtk# widgets, and to add an imperative API (so that it would be convenient to call plotting 
code from the C# REPL).  Unfortunately, it's not even close to finished.  It works as well 
as NPlot, just with the addition of an imperative API, and with a lot of the code more 
cleanly separated between tookit-specific and toolkit-agnostic pieces than the NPlot code
was.  But it still only works with WinForms, as I haven't implemented any of the Gtk# 
backends yet.  Anyway, not even close to being a polished solution to your problem, 
but if you're willing to put some coding effort into solving your problem, this might 
get you closer than starting from scratch.


 glad there's at least one other person in the universe who thinks the idea is a good one :-) 
 If/when I get around to finishing the work I'll let you know.  It's not on the active to-do
 list right now, partially because there are some mono bugs that make my end goal impossible, 
 even if I was to finish the Florence part of it.  So I wouldn't count on this any time soon, 
 but I am still interested in the project and hope to finish it at some point.
