Apps


http://traintelco.com/index.php/item/top-anti-theft-apps-for-android.html?goback=%2Egde_76373_member_227558061




We are living in the world where technology is getting advance day by day and it is very important to stand shoulder to shoulder to compete with the latest technology. iPhone is from one of those brands who was and still researching and upgrading its brand from time to time and developers are busy in developing iPhone Application which can be used on them accordingly.

Apple Apps store is full of the applications which can be used in android phone specially in iPhone. These iPhone apps belongs to different categories like funny, unique, usual, bizarre, gaming, social, business and many many more in it. Thus this application store is the largest apps store among all.

To build a top selling application, you need follow the 7 rules which will make your iPhone apps. Killer one and a top selling application.

1- Innovative
Innovation is the very first and important rule which means that your iPhone apps should have “WOW” factor. Its also means that your application much be different from others and impress people to buy it on first preview.

2- Frequently Useable
Your application should have feature of using very frequently. Fancy applications are also good to use but people puts them in sleeping mode or idle because they don’t like much the applications which occupy space and memory of iPhone.

3- Simplicity is the best beauty
This quote apply on iPhone apps also that Simplicity is the best beauty because as simple is your application, people will love to use and recommend other frequently. If your application is not a user friendly one then people may download it but will remove it more faster then the downloading time :)

4- Price an App
People loves things which they got free as it is the human nature. Same law apply on apps store world but it does not means you put your application for free. You can put a price tag from $0.99 to $20.00 according to your application level. Once you make your name in iPhone apps store your can prepare the update version of your application and the make the beta version free for to grow your brand name more powerful.

5- Provide Apps Support
People also like the brand who are supportive and can hear what actually they want in the concern application. You should be check your application frequently on apps store either it is working fine or it needs some changes. If the person using your application reports you that he / she is having problem in some features try to fixed it or replace it as soon as possible and get in user interaction about your product.

6- Upgrades Application Frequently
Peoples in technology field get bored very quick because the field of IT is very broad and vast. They like having changes and if you wants that your user don’t put your application to idle then you should make changes and upgrading it time to time.

7- iPhone Apps Marketing
Last but not least, marketing is one of the most important rule to get more hits to make your application the killer iPhone Application. Marketing of your application will brand your and application name in this technology world very quick and every lasting.

These 7 rules may looks simple but “Trust Me”, they will make your normal application to Killer iPhone Application.

