1. Appealing UI 
2. Easy to use 
3. Fast inter-activity transactions 
4. No crashes.


1) Users’ Experience With Mobile Apps 
2) How quick mobile app should launch 
3) Mobile App Engagement http://bit.ly/YtlqkQ


1) Simple - works best for one purpose (personaly I dont like app, that tries to do everything) 
2) Nice UI, good UX, so when you run it you know what to do on first sight. No disturbing dialogs and quick response.


1) Engagement - Creating an app that keeps people coming back. There are numerous ways to do this, but basically just make it enjoyable! Use push notifications (if it is suitable and not spammy). Connect the app with external social media sites (Twitter, Pinterest, Facebook, etc). 
2) Usability - Arguably the most important aspect of an app. You should spend a good amount of time doing usability testing to see what works for users of the app. What are the pain points you can eliminate? Making the app intuitive and easy/enjoyable to use is highly imperative to gaining and retaining users. 
3) Simple Interface - Because of the size limitations on a smartphone a lot of thought should also go into simplifying the design and process of using the app. This plays into the usability. Make it easy for users to visualize what the point of the app is, and what actions they should be taking. Fab.com does a great job at balancing simplicity with usability. I talk about that in this blog post if you're interested in knowing more about how Fab has been so successful as a mobile app - http://twotoasters.com/ideas/2013/creating-a-mobile-commerce-app-that-converts-interactions-into-transactions/ 
4) Robust - The app should be able to run on numerous devices with numerous firmware combinations. The coding should be high quality to begin with so that the app runs smoothly. And finally, the app should be free of bugs. This results from rigorous testing to identify any issues that might arise.


Best Practices for Mobile App Development on iPhone iPhone app 



development iPhone app development Despite the growing popularity of 
Android mobile operating system, no one can deny the huge popularity of 
iPhone apps. The combination of innovative features and stylish 
interface make the iOS apps popular among users across the world. But 
the huge popularity of iPhone apps often makes it a daunting challenge 
for the developers to build new applications. As an experienced iPhone 
app developer, you may find the process both rewarding and fun. However, 
the new developers have to look for the perfect starting point for the 
application development project. Regardless of your experience, you can 
still consider best practices for mobile app development on iPhone to 
build a powerful interface within a limited timeframe. 

Best Practices for Mobile App Development on iPhone 

Involve Users in the Planning Phase: Each developer need to make a 
roadmap to develop the iPhone app on schedule. But most programmers 
forget to include users in the planning and testing phase of the 
project. You can always optimize the application idea by getting it 
evaluated by certain users in the initial planning phase. Also, you can 
allow the users to try the app, and observe the problems faced by them. 
You can always avail the assistance of your friends to check the impact 
of the mobile application on end users. 

Allow Adequate Time to Test the App: With companies launching apps at 
frequent intervals, the mobile application development has become 
competitive. So, clients often require developers to build the 
application a time sensitive deadline. As the app will be approved by 
the Apple app store about two weeks after your submission, you must 
prepare a schedule to test and market the app properly. During the 
initial planning phase, you must decide the timeline for testing and 
marketing the app before it is approved by Apple. 

Make a Content Strategy: The mobile apps are similar to websites. As no 
website can be hosted without content, the mobile applications cannot be 
designed without deciding the content and context. You will need content 
as early as possible to develop the app in a quick and hassle-free way. 
When you are planning the app, it is a good idea to decide the content. 
If you are using the services of a professional content writer, he must 
be instructed to develop content according to the initial plan. However, 
he may also be required to change the content slightly once the app 
development process is over. 

Consider Designing Heterogeneous Applications: Once you develop an 
iPhone app, it needs to be updated regularly to support interface 
updates and provide fresh content. The heterogeneous apps make it easier 
for you to update the app by avoiding the app store approval process. As 
the app consists of a native base that is executed by referencing to 
HTML5 content located externally, you can replace the existing content 
at your own pace and convenience. Along with availing the advantages 
provided by HTML5, the heterogeneous application further allows you to 
execute the native code without requiring internet connectivity. 

Take Advantage of the Device Components: Similar to other smartphones, 
iPhone also comes with a set of innovative features and tools. Some of 
the device components like microphone, high resolution camera and GPS 
are used by all users. So you can consider using these device components 
to optimize the performance of your mobile app. Further, these 
components will help you in improving the user experience without 
writing longer lines of code. However, you must choose the components 
according to the nature and requirement of the app maintain its speed. 

Use the Latest Security Features: Along with gathering several types of 
information and data, users also carry out financial transactions using 
their iPhones. So there are chances that you app will require users to 
submit several types of sensitive information. As the sensitive 
financial and contact details of a user can be used to carry out 
identity thefts and financial frauds, you must use the latest security 
techniques. Along with availing the security features of the smartphone, 
you can also consider using the advanced encryption techniques to gain 
the trust of end users. 

Understanding these best practices not only helps you during app 
development process, but also helps you in evaluating top app 
development companies. 

If you want to hire mobile app programmers for your iPhone app 
development needs, please contact us at Mindfire Solutions. 

