App dos and donts 

IS YOUR APP ABOVE AVERAGE? 7 DOS OF MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT 
POSTED BY VISHAL GUMBER AUG 13 2013 These days, almost every small and 
large business has started developing a mobile app for itself, so that 
they can help customers to connect with their favorite brands and 
services on the go. 

However, not all apps present in the market are great. Have you ever 
wondered why? This is because great mobile apps have some specific 
features that make people fall in love with them. 

So, without much ado, here are the 7 must dos of mobile app development 

1. Simple Utility 

The app’s first job is to fulfill the purpose for which it has been 
designed. And until and unless that happens, there is no point in trying 
to convince people to use it. Keep it simple, and focus solely on 
utility and usability, making it efficient in it’s performance. 

Is your app getting user love Is your app getting enough love? Image 
Source 

2. Customization 

The app must give users scope for customization and personalization, 
such that they feel connected to it and the brand in their own way. This 
also increases their interest in using the app regularly. 

3. Feedback Option 

The app must feature some way in which the user can send feedback or 
report complaints. The idea is to build loyalty by making your users 
feel that their opinions matter. 

4. App-Device Compatibility 

There is no point in having a great app if it does not function on the 
user’s device. Customization for different platforms is therefore 
essential. 

5. Constant Improvement 

Users like it when the app that are constantly updated with new 
features. Make sure you keep giving them this dose of happiness every 
now and then. 

6. Include Social Media 

If there is one thing that everyone is hooked to these days, its social 
media websites. The ease of logging into apps with your social media 
profiles definitely adds value, and makes your sharing experience easy. 

7. Offline Functions 

It is important for the app to be equally useful, even when the user is 
not able to connect to the Internet. The app should have the ability to 
store or display information that the user viewed last, so that he can 
save it and view quickly even without a net connection. 

So, if you are thinking of launching a new business app, or want to 
improve your already existing one, then make sure you include these 
features. Good Luck! 

