How to Develop an Engagement Strategy That Brings Users Back to Your App 

inShare 27 Editor’s Note: This is a guest post by John Clancy from 
(www.appstoremarketingpro.com). 

If you’re like many of today’s top developers you’re giving away your 
app for free and relying on making money on the back end. But if you’re 
not combining that business model with a well thought out engagement 
strategy you’re crippling your potential. 

Undoubtedly, before you even contemplate your engagement strategy, you 
first need to build an app that people actually want to use. Follow that 
up with a killer marketing plan and PR that generates some good buzz in 
the media and you’ve got the basis for success. 

But to really hit a home run you’ve got to think about how you’re going 
to create an always-on connection with your users to ensure that your 
app has a permanent spot on their mobile desktop. 

Here are some tips to help you start thinking about your engagement 
strategy: 

Provide superior customer support. By respecting your customers and 
letting them know that you’re listening and keeping your promises, 
you’ll quickly build a loyal following. People who love your company 
will want to support you, not only by purchasing your in-app offers but 
also by becoming disciples who spread the word about your app. 

Develop a schedule of updates. Whether it’s introducing more stages, 
characters, chapters, features or add-ons, give your users more to look 
forward to and, subsequently, come back to. As you gather more users 
solicit feedback from them and use that information to continuously 
improve your app. The knock on effect is that these updates will also 
show potential customers that you’re focused on improving the quality of 
your app and you’re not just a “fly by night” developer. 

Build a community. Equip your users with more than one way to share your 
app’s content. For instance, integrate sharing buttons in your app at 
the point of completion of an activity and prompt users to share. Or, 
alternatively, incentivize users to “like’ your Facebook page or post on 
other social media sites in exchange for “soft currency” such as being 
able to access content or features, play new stages, get additional 
coins or receive “hints” that help users advance their play. 

Hold a contest. The purpose of a contest is to get your users and 
potential customers using your app and telling others about it. Your 
contest should therefore include elements or rules that encourage people 
to use your app or share its content in order to participate. For 
instance, if you have an app that lets users enhance their photographs, 
hold a monthly photo contest, with the proviso that entrants must use 
your app to take and edit their pictures. 

Send push notifications. Push notifications are short text messages, 
videos, pictures or external links that are sent directly to users based 
on app usage and segmentation statistics. They’re great for re-engaging 
users who have not interacted with your app in a pre-determined period. 
At the same time they allow you to keep users informed with timely and 
relevant content. Notifications can range from surveys and lifecycle 
rewards, to review requests and upgrade, up-sell or cross-sell 
notifications. 

Build an in-app loyalty program. Integrate your existing loyalty program 
into your app. Customers notice and appreciate consistency across all 
channels and reward companies that provide it through loyalty. A 
well-executed in-app loyalty program can: 1) attract new customers who 
don’t normally participate in loyalty programs, and; 2) help existing 
customers take advantage of your loyalty program more often by being 
able to conveniently access accumulated points or redeem rewards 
directly from your app. If you don’t have a loyalty program, maybe this 
is the time to create one. 

Produce “Appisodes”. An appisode is a TV show, video clip, game, comic 
or other editorial content delivered as a serial story through a user’s 
device. If your app has new levels of play, new themes or other regular 
updates that you can easily turn into episodes that users are eager to 
buy/receive through in-app purchases or as a regular update, then you 
are on to something really good. 

As the old marketing adage states, “keeping customers is much cheaper 
than finding new ones.” So don’t get trapped in the numbers game. Think 
long-term and build a sustainable business model with apps that people 
want to buy and use over and over again. 

And remember, if your app isn’t generating engagement, it isn’t 
generating revenue. 

Author Bio 

John Clancy is an Internet Marketing Consultant, the Managing Director 
and co-founder of Crop Duster Media, a Lecturer at in Holland University 
in Amsterdam and author of App Marketing Pro 
(www.appstoremarketingpro.com), a 4-part “do-it-yourself” guide to 
marketing apps. John has over 25 years of experience in marketing and 
communications with a proven record of developing and implementing 
successful Internet and mobile marketing strategies for both startups 
and established firms. His clients are based in Europe, the Middle East 
and the Americas. You can reach John at john@cropdustermedia.com. 















4 Reasons Why Users Uninstall Your Mobile App 

Vishal Gumber on August 19, 2013 with 0 Comments inShare 13 In recent 
times, many mobile apps have started to annoy people more, either 
because of poor functions or because of poor user retention strategies. 
It is important for mobile app developers to realize that their apps 
should be adding convenience to people’s lives rather than irritating 
them, which would eventually cause them to uninstall the app. 

After all, apps are meant to make a user’s life easy on the go, and any 
apps that annoy users defeat the very purpose of their existence. 

Here are a few things that most mobile app developers need to consider 
and reevaluate: 

1. Focus On Proper Updates To The User 

Most mobile apps these days have started to cheat on the concept of push 
notifications. They send useless, unnecessary updates via push 
notifications, which only annoy the user with extra noise, and don’t 
serve the purpose of alerting the user for good purposes. 

This needs to be checked on, and the user should receive updates or 
notifications that truly attract him to using the app. Moreover, these 
updates need to be timed well. 

2. Focus On Creating Value 

Value creation and quality of the app are important factors that 
determine user retention. There is no point in creating apps that don’t 
add any value, ease or comfort to a user’s life. Mobile app developers 
must constantly keep a check on market trends, and should understand 
what the user demands are. 

3. Use Analytics 

User behavior, patterns and preferences need to be well understood by 
mobile app developers if they want users to continue using their app. 
It’s important to adapt to what the users like. Some analytics tools 
also help app developers to understand whether push notifications are 
working well or not. 

Overall, this kind of information is important to constantly upgrading 
and improving the app, so that users feel like using it more. 

4. Don’t Be Pushy 

Mobile app developers need to understand in general that they can’t be 
pushy with their users. If a user has downloaded an app, he/she will use 
it as per his convenience and pace. 

Forcing or pushing the user to use the app more than they’d like to can 
cause them to get irritated and annoyed. Needless to say, when the app 
is not keeping the user happy, they will delete it. 

It’s high time that mobile app developers reevaluate the techniques with 
which they want to hold their users. Otherwise, there would be no point 
in developing apps in the first place. If developers don’t improve 
design, functionality and other things related to the app as per the 
users demands, then they would face issues in retaining them. 

In recent times, it has been noticed that users uninstall apps very 
quickly if they don’t find them to be good enough. And considering that 
the market has a lot of competition these days, if one mobile app 
developer doesn’t do a good job, somebody else will do it and will gain 
the users in that process. 

So it’s essential for all mobile app developers to understand these 
market games as well. 

- See more at: 
http://appclover.com/4-reasons-users-uninstall-mobile-app/?goback=%2Egde 
_2013391_member_267077219#%21 

