How to develop mobile app


So you have a great idea for a mobile app and you’d like to have it developed 
but you’re not really sure how to get started. Well, I am here to help!
 
After all, who can blame you, with a little bit of time in a small amount of
cash you could very easily and quickly build a steady stream of income. Who 
knows maybe even become the next tech tycoon.
 
 How much does building a mobile app cost?
 
Well there are a few ways you can cost out the price of your mobile app. Let’s 
assume your mobile app is simple, extremely simple. You can hire a US developer 
who is priced in the middle to upper range and you can expect to pay around 
$10,000-$20,000. If you’re tight on cash, it’s more likely that you’ll try to 
hire offshore. This can cost you anywhere between $2,000 to $5000.
 
If you’re new to the game, you will probably want to hire a designer to help you. 
Good designers are extremely hard to find. An easy way to cut this cost is to
find several mobile apps with elements that you like and can be transformed or 
modified to fit your particular mobile application.
 
 How to manage the build?
 
Well the good thing is that Weblance will help you get started in this regard. 
It’s important to plan out your project in a series of small milestones. Each
milestone containing very detailed specs about a piece of functionality. Detailed 
specs become even more important if you’re hiring in the lower rate market. The
lower the rate of your provider, the harder it is to explain your needs. That’s
just the name of the game.
 
Once you find a developer and designer they will help you fill out your project
in even greater detail. Leverage low fidelity wireframes to help express your point
and ensure that your developer and designer sign off on the wireframes before you
ever begin your project.
 
How do I market my mobile app?
 
It’s important that you engage a marketing professional if you doing this for the
1st time. You need to establish your pricing strategy and this is not always so easy.
For some mobile apps it’s a good idea to charge a premium and lower your price until
your sales and profits are maximized. Primarily because it’s not so easy to raise your
price and you might not get your pricing right the 1st time around.
 
For other mobile apps having a low price or even offering it for free as a trial run can
be very useful. This can help to create a buzz, get your mobile app into the marketplace
and gain some momentum as you attempt to penetrate the market.
 
Again, these are difficult decisions to make and you probably should not try to sign-on 
with a marketing professional in Weblance to help you.
 
 How do I get paid?
 
For a small fee, something like $100 a year, you can publish your mobile app in Google or 
iTunes. They will pay you every 4 to 6 weeks and deposit cash directly into your account.
 
 How do I know when I’m ready to publish?
 
It is extremely important to test your mobile app before you go to market. There are many 
services on the web that will allow you to test your mobile application. You can even higher 
some providers in Weblance that will assist you in giving your mobile application a thorough
once over.
 
How do I know if my mobile app will be a success?
 
If you have truly found a need that is shared by a large group of people you should have
some success with your mobile app. However, make sure that you get feedback early and
often. Listen to your feedback and make appropriate changes to your mobile app right away. 
Other people have really good ideas, ideas that you haven’t thought about. Make sure that
you listen and include those ideas to continually improve your mobile app.
 
Making mobile apps is extremely fun. Everyday I think of a new mobile app. Once you catch
the bug it’s going to be hard to stop. The best advice of all is to hire carefully, make a
solid project plan and leverage every resource available to you to make sure that your
mobile app is the best quality mobile app you can make with your budget.








Being a freelance mobile app developer

Mobile apps have arrived in full force! Along with it, is a wave of entrepreneurs. 
Riding that way are freelance mobile app developers. Perhaps, the greatest beneficiary
to the mobile app market.
 
With more and more developers jumping on board, getting started can be a bit confusing. 
Should you go for IOS, Android or Windows? Which one is going to have the longevity to
provide the solid demand for run a business?
 
 What are the barriers to entry?
 
1st, let’s just get Windows out of the way now. Not that Windows might not be a huge
market somewhere in the future, but right now it’s a little bit uncertain. There’s really
no way to tell if Windows will be as successful in the mobile phone market as Google and
Apple. They have some extremely interesting products but if you’re looking to get started
you really want to bet on a sure thing. So for now… focus on Google and Apple.
 
 Which OS?
 
Choosing which operating system you are going to specialize in can be difficult and it’s
a good idea to get the full picture before you choose. Each app store has positives and
negatives. Here are some important things you should know before you make your choice.
 
Apple is pretty notorious for being restrictive on app developers. There are a massive
number of app developers in the Apple App Store. Making a name for you as a freelance
mobile app developer might prove to be a little bit more challenging than with Google.
 
The Android operating system is a market that is much more easily entered. It’s also
important to keep in mind that the Android operating system works on many different types
of mobile devices. This could create some challenges when you’re designing your interface.
 
 How much does it cost to register?
 
Both Apple and Google require you to pay a fee before entering into their markets. Apple’s
more expensive with a fee of hundred dollars. Android is a lot cheaper at $25. Also, you pay
Google once a year and you pay Apple every year.
 
There also may be some additional registration fees. Generally though your clients will pay
fees in order to list their app into their accounts. The same goes for commissions, which is
generally around 30% and paid by for your client.
 
 Learn a new way to work!
 
Being a mobile app developer is definitely not the same as working for a corporation or
media development shop. It’s really up to you to ask the right questions from your client
in order to deliver product that they intend to be developed. Of course, the Weblance work
platform does an excellent job of this but you must make sure that you use it to its fullest. 
Never underestimate the fact that your clients may have much higher expectations than they
express initially. Keeping things well documented is an extremely important piece to being
an effective freelancer.
 
Also, keep in mind that you may want to invest in some additional testing tools. Sometimes
your clients will be quite happy to pay for these other times they may expect it to be
included in your services you will need to work this out with the.
 
Being a mobile app freelancer is an exciting career choice. I love it! I feel lucky I was
born when I was born so that I can participate. Getting into the game is cheap and easy.
But take it slow, learn step-by-step and don’t over extend yourself. Treat your clients
like gold and there’s no doubt cesspool is a freelance mobile app developer.
