http://www.sooperarticles.com/communications-articles/mobile-application 
s-articles/dos-donts-mobile-app-development-1234715.html#%21 

Dos and Don'ts of Mobile App Development By Vikash Patra on August 12, 
2013 0 Mobile App Development is the buzz term these days that has 
created waves in the tech savvy world. Companies offering their services 
in this domain have almost sprawled like mushrooms in the recent past 
years and it is still the beginning. In the forthcoming times, this 
craze is all set to amaze even a bigger and better customer base round 
the globe. However, amid the fast-paced mobile development market, much 
goes into satisfying towering demands of the market and abiding by the 
persistent ask of technology upheaval. A slight lapse and you are 
dragged way behind in the competition. It is therefore important to take 
care of certain dos and don'ts before venturing into this prospective 
field. Here are some of them. 

Dos 

Thorough research work: A mobile app that projects fresh idea is likely 
to entice the users more often than the other apps that are just a 
replica of an existing one. Hence, a keen research work comprising 
market study, consumer behavior analysis and market trends is important. 
Once the brainstorming work reaches its completion, chances are better 
for a virgin concept to break the ice in the hot market. 

Maximize the use of smartphone features: The modern day smartphones 
comprise a host of enticing features such as 3G, high pixel back camera, 
decent front camera, speech recognition system, GPS, and so on. To 
develop a mobile app that could utilize all such capabilities of the 
device is sure to make the application a popular affair among the users. 

Maximum user experience: Customer satisfaction rules the roost while 
providing almost any service, and the same holds with mobile 
development. Programmers can equip the apps with multiple facilities to 
lure the users. Some feasible practices may include incorporating 
features to track real time data in case of a sports or weather app, 
proper working of the app in offline mode as well if it belongs to 
navigation field, and so on. 

Don'ts 

Avoid copying UI: To some extent, migration is fine, but copying the 
entire desktop application to mobile devices is a very discouraging act. 
The requirements for software development differ from desktops to 
smartphones and tabs. A web application that works flawlessly on a 
computer is likely to crash out on a mobile phone if the developer does 
not give attention to a befitting user interface. Hence, it is way 
better to create a brand new app with the old idea rather than messing 
up with application porting hassles. 

Platform abundance: For startups or small to medium size companies, 
restricting the technology domains is the need of the hour. Most of the 
app developers try foraying into multiple mobile platforms at once in 
the wake of raking in exponential returns. However, a big chunk of such 
ambitious developers come a cropper owing to the lack of apt resources 
and infrastructure. A better solution in this regard is therefore to use 
only one or at the most two mobile platforms. Adhering to this practice 
helps companies to keep a regular check on financial constraints and 
also minimizes the chances of monetary loss in case of low app 
popularity. 

Feature profusion: An app can do quite well even if it has few but 
effective features. Too much experiment may leave the application with 
limited facilities, less appeal and even lesser takers. Hence, at least 
for the maiden release, it is better not to toy around with the app idea 
and keep it as simple and beneficial as possible. Users often prefer 
installing mobile applications that concentrate on a specific task, 
instead of those performing multitasking. 

To develop an interactive and equally successful mobile app, it is 
necessary to adhere to certain dos and don'ts. Once the developers take 
care of all such points, chances are better for their mobile application 
development endeavors to fetch rich dividends in terms of surging 
popularity and better ROI. 

Read more: Dos and Don'ts of Mobile App Development 
http://www.sooperarticles.com/communications-articles/mobile-application 
s-articles/dos-donts-mobile-app-development-1234715.html#ixzz2bvuIK4gy 
Follow us: @SooperArticles on Twitter | SooperArticles on Facebook 

