Apps ideas 

http://www.downgraf.com/all-articles/10-types-businesses-digital-signage 
/?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_234163515 

10 Types of Businesses That Need Digital Signage Now 

Digital signage is any display that shows a design presentation. 

Examples include digital restaurant menus, digital directories in 
universities and entertainment monitors in doctor offices. 

Digital signage is one of the most in demand areas of design. Any 
business or organization that has a physical location has a potential 
need for digital signage. 

If you’re looking to expand your design business consider digital 
signage. 

Here are 10 types of businesses that need digital signage right now… 

1. Healthcare 

Communication is a big part of digital signage. In healthcare, 
communication is necessary to make sure all processes are efficient and 
easy to understand for all visitors and employees. Digital signage can 
provide key information to these individuals so they know what is going 
on and where they need to go once they enter the facility. 

Digital signage can also offer more of an experience in waiting rooms. 
We’ve all seen television monitors in waiting rooms. Digital signage can 
offer a more interactive experience complete with Web integration that 
provides everything from online video to live weather feeds. The 
experience can cut down on perceived waiting times resulting in happier 
employees. 

2. Business Offices 

Digital displays in business offices can greet visitors with 
information. The display can direct the person where they need to go as 
soon as they enter the office. 

Displays can be used to guide people through the building and they can 
be used to access any necessary information. For example, as a visitor 
waits for a meeting to begin they can access information about the 
company so they are better prepared. 

And once again, perceived waiting times are reduced as a result of the 
better experience for visitors. 

3. Investment Companies 

Investment companies are in need of the up-to-date information possible. 
Digital displays are connected directly to the Internet. Feeds can 
easily be integrated so employees and visitors can see the latest stock 
feeds and prices as they happen. 

4. Non-Profit Organizations 

Non-profit organizations have many visitors. Sometimes when people visit 
they may have to wait in the lobby before a meeting. Digital displays 
can provide the latest news items regarding the industry. They can read 
more about the non-profit they are visiting. They can also read about 
upcoming fundraising events. 

5. Event Centers 

Event centers can be very large places. New visitors can easily get 
lost. Digital displays are great for giving direction to these folks. 
The displays can also be used as the event is taking place. Schedules 
and lists of events can be posted along with locations and detailed 
descriptions. Live social media updates can even be implemented for 
specific user feeds or hashtag feeds. 

6. Sports Stadiums 

Sports stadiums can be confusing places as well. When you first enter 
the stadium you’re often looking for information. Digital displays can 
direct people to their seat or to any location they need to find. 

Displays can stream scores, stats and news as patrons wait in line for a 
drink. It once again cuts down on perceived wait time. 

Sports stadiums are also big on advertising. Digital displays allow for 
the ultimate flexibility when it comes to displaying a variety of 
advertisements. 

7. Places of Worship 

Digital displays can be used for directory information at places of 
worship. Donors can be recognized on displays encouraging more 
involvement from others. A list of upcoming events can be displayed to 
encourage more participation and photo albums and video galleries can be 
displayed from past events. 

8. Banks and Credit Unions 

As you wait in line at the bank it cuts down on the wait time when your 
mind is occupied. Digital displays can show basic information like news 
and weather updates. 

Displays can also be used for advertising or upselling. It is easy to 
display an ad for a new interest rate on loans or another service being 
offered. 

9. Education 

University visitors often need information when they arrive at the 
building. Displays can be used as basic directories. They can also 
provide event information, announcements and news items. 

Displays can even show the latest social media feeds for the university. 
It’s a great way to give visitors, students and faculty a better 
experience. 

10. Restaurants 

More restaurants are going to digital menus. They find it’s easy to make 
changes to prices and menu items. It’s also easier to create promotions 
and offer special items that aren’t normally on the menu. Photos of the 
entrees can also appear in high resolution making them even more 
appealing to potential customers. 

As you can see there are many industries that need digital signage. The 
only issue for companies in these industries is they need great 
designers to create digital signage presentations. 

That’s where you come in. 

Grow your business by offering digital signage as a service. It’s an 
easy extension of your current service and there is a growing demand 
from clients in a variety of industries. 

4 Things to Know About Making Your First App The process of building a 
great smartphone app starts in validating your idea. Then the hard work 
begins. By Sue Marquette Poremba 

Comments 3 Share 

Getty Images / Justin Sullivan 

August 21, 2013 2:39 PM TEXT SIZE: A . A . A Creating an app for a 
smartphone or tablet starts with a great idea. But once you have a 
fabulous idea, the app development process then becomes a matter of 
weighing a number of options. 

"It's difficult to design a compelling app that's simple and easy to use 
by a wide variety of people," says Bill Tanaka, mobile application 
development director for the WeatherBug app from Earth Networks. "The 
best mobile apps are intuitive, easy, and compelling. To create your 
app, you'll spend time creating a workflow, then the graphics, then the 
user interface. You must go through many iterations to make it simpler 
and simpler. Even designing icons takes a lot of effort, but it's time 
well spent." 

If you're thinking about making your first app, here are a few things 
you should know. 

How Tech-Savvy Do You Really Need To Be? 

Someone on your team—be it you or your developer—has to be very tech 
savvy. Writing code for an app is such a complex, detailed process, says 
Cody Jarrett, who created the Airsleep app as a way to solve his sleep 
problems. Airsleep was Jarrett's first attempt at app development. 

"It's like playing ‘connect the dots,' but there are thousands of dots, 
and they all have to perfectly connect to one another," he says. "Plus, 
the app graphics are key, so having a graphic designer is important, as 
well—not to mention music or sound cues. Overall, it's highly technical 
and highly creative. Both are important factors." 

How Do You Decide What Platform (iOS, Android, Windows, etc.) To Use? 

When Bobby Valentine, a novice app developer, decided to create his 
running-based app Sociercise, he chose Apple's iOS over Android and 
other platforms. "We felt that with a complicated app like Sociercise it 
would be much better to get a stable version on a platform that has only 
one device versus hundreds. With iOS we are able to test all functions 
on a single device, make sure we have things right, and then move on to 
Android devices, which is what we're doing now," he says. 

Tanaka says turning to iOS is a smart move for new app developers. "It's 
perhaps the easiest interface for new designers to work with. IOS has a 
smaller set of devices you need to support, namely the iPhone and iPad. 
iOS provides a nice, integrated development environment to create the 
user experience you want for your app and bring together all the 
components you need to design it." This ease of use for beginners is a 
primary reason you see so many apps available for iPhone before they 
become available on other platforms. 

What Are the Basic Features Any App Should Have? 

Standard features include user sign-ups, notifications, e-commerce 
ability, simple gaming, integration with marketing, and notification 
tools. Most apps these days have some form of social component as well, 
so keep this in mind as you develop your app. 

What is the Most Surprising Part About Creating an App as an Amateur? 

Underestimating the importance of your user interface is something most 
amateur developers struggle with, Tanaka says. "We recently completed a 
total redesign of our apps for both iOS and Android, and we are seeing 
our page views and user engagement increase dramatically. Give your 
users a positive experience and they will spend time with your app." 

And you can't build your app and forget about it. "Once you design your 
app, you've got to keep up with current trends and not overlook what may 
seem like the smallest details, down to the colors you use," he says. 
"As an aspiring developer, you should be looking at a number of apps for 
ideas and inspiration. And keep on top of current trends. For example, 
when iOS first came out, graphics were designed to look like real 
objects. Now iOS features a newer flat design. You'll need to be ready 
to embrace these changes." 

Read more: 4 Things to Know About Making Your First App - Popular 
Mechanics Follow us: @PopMech on Twitter | popularmechanics on Facebook 
Visit us at PopularMechanics.com 

