Apps qualityhttp://www.technogist.com/2013/04/tips-to-create-award-winning-apps.html?goback=%2Egde_2013391_member_231068809The job of an app developer usually seems fascinating, however, there is nothing glamorous about it. It is no rocket science in creating an innovative app, but the challenge is to sustain through the competition. For this, you will need the best recipe that is simple but effective, so that you have an app that is successful in the market.Match your own skills and interests to everyday problems and solve it betterFocus on the User ExperiencePay Attention to DetailsIn this article I will offer you a few simple tips to plan and execute award-winning mobile apps.CREATE VALUE APPS FOR USERSAlthough I say that building a successful app is no rocket science, it does take significant effort to create one that is simple,looks great and is easy to use. Well, you might have more than a million apps in the market and more than a dozen similar apps. So, it is recommended that you do not waste your time, effort and energy in building something that is already there.You can definitely try to improve on an existing app or its category, however, your aim should always be to build something new, with a better solution. People always love something that is fun and adds new possibilities – something that is fresh and interesting. So, if you are talking about innovations, it is really smart to make improvements on existing apps and solutions. However, you do not have a fixed recipe for thinking about a good idea or so, but the following tips will for sure spare you the horror.TIP #1: SOLVE A PROBLEM, AND SOLVE IT BETTERIf you want to develop a good app, remember that “it should solve a problem”. Even commercial apps follow, somewhat, the same principle. Only the approach is different. The best you can always do is, focus on a problem, the user is facing and try to effectively solve it. And that is not all! You will have to stay focused on the problem, and be more user-centric while designing and developing the app. Only this will determine how successful your app will be in the market. It is extremely essential to give the user one-touch access to the app's current task. In fact, you also need to have an app which is responsive and functional. Make sure your app focuses on a particular task, is event-drive and solves the problems of the users.TIP #2: DIFFERENTIATE THE SOLUTIONYou always need to think of the app as slightly more than bookmarks for a website. Most of the apps often fail to provide value for the users and do not much than what a browser can do. However, if you have a smartly thought, bookmark style application which is in obvious terms simple, useful and focused, is exactly what is needed. Take for example a cab-booking app, or an app that shows you bus routes are apps that precisely fall into that category.It is not necessary to be the first one with a unique idea. In fact, what is more important is to have an app providing a completely different solution. It is OK if you are probably fifth, unless you have to offer something that the users are looking for.TIP #3: DO ONLY ONE THING, AND DO IT WELLNo matter how good and unique your idea for creating an app is, it would all go waste if you get lazy and do not put 100 percent effort in what you are doing. Moreover, it is not important to have 10 different ideas and not work effectively at any one of them. It is, on the other hand, more important to have one single idea and work strongly on it to make it the best.If you need an app which is good in all possible ways, make sure to do it well. You also need to clearly define what your app is built for, and you should be able to define the purpose of your app in one line. It is then that your app will fall into the category of award-winning apps.In case you are not satisfied with what you wanted or have, stop. Think and rethink till you are able to write the purpose of your app in one line.TIP #4: USE POWER OF COMBINING CAPABILITIESIt is always advisable to create an app that is genuinely new – and there are several methods of doing it by mashing up phone capabilities. To simply explain – location and mobile define "right here, right now". Now you can connect this to social networking and get access to ample of new apps like "find me" apps or "expect me". Mashing up also allows you to re-combine two or more apps to give the users a totally new third app.TIP #5: TEST THOROUGHLYWhether you have a commercial app or a small development project, nothing is perfect till it is tested. You can coin it perfect only after you have tested your app thoroughly, across different platforms or the native platform for which the app has been designed. Even if there is one critical error or bug that needs immediate attention, make sure you have solved it before launching it in the app store.CONCLUSIONYou also need to focus completely on strength, stability and security of the app. To give the best to the user, refine the app, polish it, make improvements, tune it for better performance, test it thoroughly and only then release it. Repeat the steps if necessary.This article is written by Daniel, who is a professional iPhone App Developer associated with a leading mobile apps development company. 