User Forums

Sometimes all it takes is lurking in user forums to get an idea of the apps that 
users are really looking for. Users usually write on different forums that really 
could make a use to make their social, business or family lives better. Users like 
these already know what they want and the next thing is to just meet their needs.

Existing Users or Peers

Some of the best app ideas come from just listening to users and a true understanding 
of what they need to produce an exact app they need. But this stretches further into 
actually listening to your family and peers to know the exact apps to develop.

Following Trends

One of the best ways to get ideas for an app is to follow trends on what the next 
hottest thing is going to be. If that said trend can be translated into an app, even 
better. If not, then looking at apps that are popular and remodeling them into 
something that users can still relate to and love, then that could be an idea to work 
with.

Brainstorming Sessions

The toughest way to put together app ideas is probably where you have a rough idea and 
then sitting on it on your own or with a team to thrash it out and develop it further 
or can it and develop it into a completely different idea than what you had in mind 
before. All the same it might be hard to say goodbye to the idea that was your baby 
but might be good in the long run.

Following One’s Passion

This is really about following what one loves to do in their spare time or is passionate 
about and churning it into an app.

Observation

There is always need for new tools which makes users’ life easier. People always keep 
their mobile with them and uses many times in a day. If you can observe the user behavior 
and their need, I am sure that you can come up with amazing idea which can lead to 
successful app.

The mobile app industry is not different from any business or industrial business out 
there. If Steve Jobs had asked people if they needed iPods they would have said they were 
happy with their Walkman; however when presented with an iPod, everyone wants a piece of 
it! The truth behind that is the fact that sometimes consumers don’t know what they want 
until it’s with them. And it takes courage to take an idea into a product that can 
presented to consumer and they end up loving it and living it, like apps. It’s even 
better when you come up with an idea like Instagram and it ends up being sold for so much.
What is your way to get ideas for app?

