My application currently supports ARM6 and ARM7. From what I can tell I can't build for 
both anymore if I want to support the iPhone 5.

Will Apple just let me know drop support for ARM6 and update my current app? Do I have to 
create a new app that is just for the new device? Can anyone tell me my options?



had to change my project to target iOS 4.3 and higher and ARM7. Mine were just ARM6 
before. It was approved yesterday. 

Wow, so basically I'm being forced to alienate some people who have already paid my for my app.


*think* that as long as you continue to target an iOS older than 6.0 and keep Xcode 4.4 
(don't upgrade to 4.5), you can continue to build for armv6 and it will still work on iPhone5

You just can't use iOS6 APIs.



Use XCode 4.4 and target iOS 3+ with ARMv6
Use XCode 4.5 and target iOS 4.3+ with ARMv7 and drop iPhone 3G support.

HOWEVER, Apple (in the past) have stopped accepting updates which
don't use the current SDK, so you may be forced out anyway - I don't
know how long they will accept xcode 4.4/iOS5 SDK-built apps.


Check your trash folder, you may have xcode.app in there which is 4.4.
You can have both - just put 4.4 somewhere else and point MT at it.

Or you can download it again from Apple's dev site (it's well hidden, but it is still available :)


> HOWEVER, Apple (in the past) have stopped accepting updates which
> don't use the current SDK...

Do you have a source for this? I had not heard that, and I am now very 
concerned. Every time we update to the latest SDK we find new bugs because 
they change how things behave.

his is very normal for Apple on each release of a new version of SDK. I thought it was in the 
developer agreements.  can’t look right now. 


You can support iPhone 5 (taller screens) by just including a splash 
screen with the right size. That's how the iPhone 5 decides whether to 
letterbox your app. You don't actually need to use any particular version 
of the SDK.

If you want to actually call newer APIs then you have a bigger problem. It 
is possible with ObjectiveC to check whether a method exists at runtime, 
and that's often how you detect whether a feature is supported. You could 
probably link against the old SDK and still use some of those new 
features. It just might be very tedious.

I am nearly certain that Apple does not reject apps which don't link 
against the latest SDK. I'm open to being proved wrong, but I have 
anecdotal evidence to the contrary, and I have been unable to find 
anything from Apple that says you have to link against the latest SDK. For 
one thing that would make your situation impossible. Plus it's just 
annoying as hell to have to upgrade SDKs for no good reason.


It's VERY tedious. I have some code to do this:

https://gist.github.com/2311681

But you can also use

if (UIDevice.CurrentDevice.CheckSystemVersion (6,0)) {

(or 5,0, or 5,1 etc). I needed to know if it was 5.0, specifically -
not 6.0 or 4.0, so I use a more long-winded check (which is also prone
to bugs  )
