6 money lessons from 'The Sopranos'
In honor of the late actor James Gandolfini, here are some financial words of wisdom from Tony and the crew.



James Gandolfini, you left us too soon. 

An accomplished actor on stage and screen, the 51-year-old was best known for his portrayal of the tortured mob boss Tony Soprano on "The Sopranos."

His untimely death in Rome sparked an outpouring of support and mourning across the world. Critics noted how Gandolfini transformed and improved television along with the way we watched (and loved and sometimes hated) starring characters.

And although Gandolfini had a number of other great performances -- his recent work in "Not Fade Away" and "Killing Them Softly" comes to mind -- tributes to the actor are also spurring reflections about the show and the role that fit him so perfectly.

In that vein, we'd like to offer our own money lessons from "The Sopranos." Money played a big part in the show, from the garbage bags full of cash that Tony stashed around his property to his fraud involving the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Here are six money lessons from one of the best shows in television history:

1. There's money to be made in any economy.
Tony Soprano, complaining that his captains aren't bringing in more money: "Sil, break it down for them. What two businesses have traditionally been recession-proof since time immemorial?" 

Silvio Dante: "Certain aspects of show business . . . and our thing." 

Tony: "Now, that's it. That's all I've gotta say. Frankly, I'm depressed and ashamed." 

2. Invest in land.
Tony talking to his son: "Buy land, A.J., 'cause God ain't making any more of it."

3. Being the boss is lonely.
Tony: "All due respect, you got no (expletive) idea what it's like to be No. 1. Every decision you make affects every facet of every other (expletive) thing. It's too much to deal with almost. And in the end you're completely alone with it all."

4. Make up your mind and stick with it.
Tony: "A wrong decision is better than indecision."

5. Delegate.
Tony to one of his men: "It's your job to make my job easier."

6. Pick up the tab and smile.
Tony to Christopher Moltisanti: "You know how many tabs, how many dinners, I've picked up over the years? . . . It's a sign of respect. Why don't you cheer up? One day some kid will be paying for your dinners."