http://aspdotnet-sekhar.blogspot.in/2013/06/difference-between-web.cofig 
-and-machine.config-in-asp.net-server-configuration.html?sthash.Jw6kJigg 
.mjjo&goback=%2Egde_46954_member_263570747 

Explain difference between web.config and machine.config Server 
Configuration files in Asp.Net Applications. Description: 

.Net Framework provides three types of files known as Configuration 
Files which contains information for controlling and managing .Net 
Applications i.e.Windows(Windows Forms and WPF) and Web 
Applications(Asp.Net,MVC). These are Machine.Config, App.Config and 
Web.Config. 

These files are XML based configuration files.All the information is in 
the format of XML which can be easily modified and readable by .Net 
Applications. Machine.Config: 

This file is the top in the hierarchy of configuration files. It is a 
global settings file for all the applications that run on the .Net 
Framework on the machine. All the .Net application will use this 
configuration information in their applications. This file is 
automatically installed whenever .Net Framework is installed in the 
System.Only one file per the system. This file is located at 
C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v2.0.50727\CONFIG. All the 
information in this file is readable by the applications but can not be 
modified. This file can be maintained by the system administrator. Only 
one machine configuration file is exists on server. This file stores 
configuration information at system level so it can be called as machine 
level configuration file. Web.Config: 

This file is automatically created when you create Asp.Net Web 
Application Project. This file contains configuration information only 
for one web application only. All the machine.config file settings can 
be inherited here and also can be overidable. This file contains 
application level configuration so it can be called as application level 
configuration file. One web application can contain many web.config 
files based on the number of folders in the application. You can find 
what Asp.Net Server Configuration can be stored here at Asp.Net Settings 
Schema at MSDN You can store information like connections strings, 
domains, application properties,session information, Cookie 
information,Viewstate information etc in web.config file. Conclusion: 

I hope you got the difference between web.config and machine.config 
files. you can also find difference between app.config and web.config, 
How to read and write app configuration information from Server 
Configuration files. I would like to have Suggestions,Feedback,Questions 
from you. 

Related Tutorials 

Architecture of WPF. Creation of Three Tier Architecture in .Net 
Application. Difference between App.config and Web.Config Difference 
between Machine.Config and Web.Config in Asp.Net Framework. Basic 
Drawings and Shapes in WPF. How to read and write key values from and to 
App.config Settings file .Net Windows Application. How to Use ViewState 
in Asp.Net(State Management Techniques). How to use Hidden Field in 
Asp.Net with Example(State Managemet Techniques). Beginners Tutorial on 
How to use QueryStrings in Asp.Net(State Management Techniques). Asp.Net 
Cookie Usage Overview with example(State Management Techniques). Access 
Specifiers or Modifiers in C# with example(Oops Concept). - See more at: 
http://aspdotnet-sekhar.blogspot.in/2013/06/difference-between-web.cofig 
-and-machine.config-in-asp.net-server-configuration.html?sthash.Jw6kJigg 
.mjjo&goback=%2Egde_46954_member_263570747#sthash.Jw6kJigg.N3JCAHn4.dpuf 

web.config: It is the main settings and configuration file for an 
ASP.NET web application. The file is an XML document that defines 
configuration information regarding the web application. The web.config 
file contains information that control module loading, security 
configuration, session state configuration, and application language and 
compilation settings. Web.config files can also contain application 
specific items such as database connection strings. 

machine.config: It contains settings that apply to an entire computer. 
This file is located in the %runtime install path%\Config directory. 
Machine.config contains configuration settings for machine-wide assembly 
binding, built-in remote channels, and ASP.NET. 

