http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/560798/ASP-NET-MVC-controller-dependency-injection-for-be


http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=1554970
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7046161/returning-xml-or-json-depending-on-the-http-request
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7890683/routing-for-json-and-xml
http://omaralzabir.com/create_rest_api_using_asp_net_mvc_that_speaks_both_json_and_plain_xml/
http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/233572/Build-truly-RESTful-API-and-website-using-same-ASP




web service upload image
http://www.codeproject.com/Questions/163276/upload-image-to-web-service-using-c
http://forums.asp.net/t/1667411.aspx/1

http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/147797/Webpart-Portlet-development-in-ASP-NET-MVC-Framewo
http://blogs.msdn.com/b/nunos/archive/2010/02/16/quick-tips-about-asp-net-mvc-webpart-framework.aspx

http://mvcwebpart.codeplex.com/
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5381623/web-parts-in-asp-net-mvc






http://odetocode.com/blogs/scott/archive/2009/10/29/mvc-or-web-forms-a-dying-question.aspx










Web Forms + Ajax is a perfect fit for the many small to medium commercial web applications 
that we develop whereas sharepoint is either overkill or the client has committed to another cms.

I have no issue with mvc (its "back to the future" using techniques from the asp pre .net
days) but i suspect its attractiveness to a lot of developers is that they can avoid the 
learning curve associated with web forms.




 disagree. Comparing Web Forms and ASP.NET MVC to Sharepoint just doesn't work. It's like 
 comparing an operating system with a programming language. They are there for two different 
 purposes.

I truly hate Webforms. They give me crappy control of the output code (1998-style HTML), 
it's difficult to handle once you're doing something that's just plain basic in the framework. 
And the fact that you must wrap your entire page in a form-tag and always have that viewstate 
there. It's dreadful if you're into web standards and all that. And I am.
WebForms simply abstracts away too much of what makes web development different from desktop 
development. You're supposed to know stuff about how to send and get data, how to store data 
across pages etc. It's just plain messy. In my opinion, WebForms is a true Web 1.0-way of 
thinking development due to all the silly restrictions all those opportinities give you.


This is what makes ASP.NET MVC so great: You have *complete* control of all output code, it's 
easy to do testing because you are the one that's always in control of all code (no gridviews 
or fileupload-controls here!). It's made up the way a web framework is supposed to work, it 
doesn't abstract away everything with an enormous ViewState to control the flow of your pages.





second Arve's opinion about why he prefers MVC. To me it has nothing to do with "avoid[ing] 
the learning curve associated with web forms" as Mike put it. I used WebForms for many, many 
years and am so glad to be free of the many hacks that developers that care about standards 
have to put up with when using it.

More to the point of the article, I completely agree with Scott's take on the matter. In fact 
I'm already seeing this happening as I hire new employees and consultants - there is already 
a large swing toward SharePoint development amongst the WebForms community.










'm agree. I think it's time to let go WebForms and focus on MVC. WebForms was thought so the 
VB6 developers can use the .Net Framework to develop Web apps without to have to learn or get 
used to a new environment...

But, it's just my opinion.

@Cyril - I think it's going to get a lot of use, but I also think it's going to lose developers 
to other web frameworks and platforms. It just doesn't have the momentum anymore.











gree that SharePoint is the ultimate platform.

But, developing for it is fundamentally different from MVC and WebForms, so the assumption 
that people will take whatever they were going to develop in WebForms and now develop that 
in SharePoint, is too simplistic a statement. Today, if they were to attempt to build what 
would be a typical WebForms app in SharePoint, they'd probably still have to create a database, 
because SharePoint's lists have too many limitations. Then, because they aren't using 
SharePoint's lists, they'd have to create CRUD pages on top of the database tables, and then 
manually work up validation, business logic (can't use Workflow anymore), and so on...and so 
they'd be developing a WebForms app inside SharePoint. In the future (SP 2010) maybe enough 
of the typical LOB app's needs will be covered by the platform, and so developers will be able 
to use the platform exclusively. Don't know/we'll see.

I guess the point I'm making, is that you embed an assumption above in your dichotomy(? big 
word alert)--you have developers who like frameworks and developers who like platforms. The 
assumption is that frameworks and platforms are roughly equally good choices at getting the 
job done. What I'm saying is that developers who like platforms, in order to solve real 
problems, have to learn both the platform (SharePoint) and the framework (ASP.NET), and 
would be better off just learning to be effective with the framework and skipping the platform. 
There's a small sweet spot where the platform does exactly what you need and saves you time, 
but I'm going to invoke my very own Pedro's Improved Pareto principle, in which I replace 
the 80/20 rule with 8/2. 8% of what you need is done with 2% of the effort, the other 92% is 
left as an exercise for the reader.























This is a very interesting post. Let me preface what I am about to say with "I am a SharePoint 
guy". I also respect your work and your status in the community. I hope this post doesn't sound 
disrespectful.

I feel like this is one of the most common misconceptions about SharePoint...

"Anything else you can think of? Check."

It is a fallacy to assume that SharePoint is the all encompassing solution that makes standard 
ASP.NET technologies obsolete. SharePoint is an amazing platform the transcends any standard 
definition like "Intranet" or "Workflow" or "Business Intelligence". It is all of these things 
and so much more.

However, as a previous poster pointed out, it is most certainly not an operating system. I don't 
really think that the words "SharePoint" belong in a comparison between WebForms and MVC.

As to the question of which ASP.NET framework is better, I really think that the fundamental 
advantage of MVC is the ability to properly do test driven development given the decoupling 
of the UI from the other layers. WebForms are nearly impossible to test in an automated fashion. 
I really think that it is high time for Microsoft developers to enter the world of "best practices" 
when it comes to ASP.NET as a web technology. Whether or not MVC is the proper platfrom is less 
of a question as simply saying that WeForms is no longer an option as it makes writing flexible 
and maintainable code very very difficult.

I really really hope this post isn't overly harsh, but I feel like it might be. I know I am going 
to regret hitting the "Comment" button here in a few seconds.

Thank you for this post. I feel like it has brought out some excellent thoughts on ASP.NET and 
SharePoint.

















yself I am not a fan of MVC at all. It represents a lot of new work and effort on my part for 
little to no benefit. For the smug developers who are so full of themselves that they must use 
overcomplicated tools to accomplish simple jobs go ahead and knock yourself out. I'll be finished 
with my simple small to medium size web site in half the time it takes you to finish your MVC 
concoction and delivering practical value to the business instead of being a procrastinating 
code artist.











'm confused. What has sharepoint to do with the mix? Isn't it primarily for intranet purposes?
I think the real question for an MS dev is WebForms vs. MVC vs. Silverlight. If at all possible, 
I vote for silverlight. Javascript is powerful and all, but I just don't think the cleanness 
and productivity of having C# everywhere combined with a UI rendering engine that is easy to 
use and looks the same on all browsers can be beat.











@Brad - People are already creating Internet sites with SharePoint. In 2010 they explicitly 
market and license it for use on public facing web sites!













@Scott: MOSS has been running public sites for years (marketed and licensed as such). We were 
at the launch event in 2006 with a high-profile public site. There are some rough edges in its 
CMS/blogging capabilities that have been refined in 2010. For a sample of public sites running 
MOSS today (there are more under NDA) see http://www.wssdemo.com/Pages/websites.aspx. In a 
perfect world, SharePoint would absorb capabilities in Sitecore and Community Server for a 
well-rounded approach to external sites/communities. 2010 CMS enhancements are catalogued here: 
sharepoint.microsoft.com/.../Post.aspx?ID=270.










@Mike: Really? A learning curve for WebForms? I think the problem is that it is so easy for 
anyone to do it (poorly). MVC == back to the future asp days? I don't recall many using an 
MVC pattern in asp, though I'm sure some did. I would think those days were more equatable 
with a Spaghetti Western. Anyway, thanks for the laugh! :)









I have been reading on MVC and I created some pet projects with it and I am very pleased 
with the shift from WebForms. 

However, I have a bit of a limitation that holds me back with WebForms and I was wondering if 
you could help me with it.

I work for a Web CMS company as a Consultant, therefore all websites (public sites, intranets, 
extranets, you name it) are based on the CMS software from my company (which should remain 
nameless).

One of the features that the sales guys like to pitch about our software is its "friendly" urls. 
Baiscally all data is stored and structured within the CMS like a file system. Then when you 
point your browser to http://mywebsite.com/about the CMS will return the contents from the item 
stored under the root with the name "about". 

Each item also has a (interchangeable) template registration which is the physical location of 
the file that is going to display the contents of it (an .aspx page). Just like the "Views" on MVC.

So, to handle the friendly URLs I have to add a HTTP Handler as follows:
<add verb="*" path="*" type="Cms.ASPDelivery.HttpRequestHandlerFactory, CmsDelivery" />

That will take care of the friendly URLs and will do the mapping between contents and views. 

In an architectural way you could see that just like MVC. The data is stored in the CMS, the 
presentation is independent of the data, and the handler will be the Controller.

But when it comes down to coding in itself, it is the same old Webforms spagetti. Do you see 
any way that I could use both MVC and my CMS' Http Handler?









t doesn't sound like you'd be able to rip out the CMS and place your own controller in place, 
but I'm not clear on the exact architecture of the CMS. 

Since the CMS is basically delivering a model to the .aspx page, I'm wondering if you could write 
your page like an MVC view. That is to avoid code-behind and server controls and use HTML helpers 
and jQuery instead.








It does my head in all the people who think you cant acheive SOC, IOC, or testability without 
asp.mvc framework.

Ever heard of the MVP pattern? 
Web Software Factory by MS patterns & practices?
n-tier/n-layer design...

Just because you dont know how to extend and use webforms corrrectly doesnt make it a bad 
platform.

The only benefit is see of asp.net MVC is if you want more control over mark up. 
Which for me i dont care for anymore, after 12 years in the webspace im bored with html, 
Silverlight is where im moving too.. again making webforms vs MVC a dead argument.







noticed everyone ignored David Robbins' post. his experience is mine as well. I understand 
that some people have very basic needs and therefore, out-of-the-box Sharepoint works with 
minor adjustments. However, the reality is, that it is much less flexible than almost every 
other framework out there. If I could get a hold of Excel Services outside of Sharepoint, 
I'd never look at Sharepoint again. My development team spent many months creating our own 
internal web portal applications using Sharepoint as the framework and ended up abandoning 
it for a simple open source ASP.Net portal. Although lacking a features like a farm architecture 
is a huge loss, the productivity gain was immense. A good example of MVC versus Web Forms is 
trying to build a dashboard where the page loads and then each db widget loads AND DISPLAYS 
independently. In the normal web forms update panel pipeline this requires a huge amount of 
shenanigans and bs if you even CAN get this to work. 
The bottom line is it all depends on your needs.



If I am paid by lines of code I will choose asp.net MVC; if I am paid by number of functins 
I will stick with Webforms. And if you don't care about making money, then you should just 
retire and spending your time with your family.





If MVC is the future, then why is Microsoft continuing to reiterate and re-reiterate that, 
for the record, Webforms is absolutely not going away?

If MVC truly was the wave of the future, wouldn't it be in Microsoft's best interest to 
phase out Webforms and get Webform developers up to speed on MVC? And isn't Sharepoint 
built on Webforms? 

As it stands now, it just seems this whole Webforms/MVC/Sharepoint debate is all about 
religion. Or politics. Change the names to Democrat, Republican and Independent and you've 
got the same kinds of arguments, with each party not hearing what the other is saying.

IMHO, each advocate of the above has legitimate reasons to support their preferred 
platform/framework. 






In my opinion, the question is becoming blurred with a lot of the cool features of 
MVC making their way into Webforms. ASP.NET 4.0 added URL Routing, reduced ViewState, 
and greater control of the HTML mark-up produced by many ASP.NET controls, now the 
next version of Webforms will incorporate many more MVC features into Webforms. 
http://bit.ly/dNhBd8











How to achieve dynamic generation of views in MVC ?
Well, Let's suppose I have + 100 forms in my application. It would very tedious task to 
design each and every form when there are minor changes in forms (i.e 90% controls are 
same in each form). So I want a approach ,which generate controls from XMl/Database and 
render in View. So, now there should be only one view/form, but controls should load 
from XMl/Database.
You have 12 minutes


look at reusing the partial views and models associated with them, this will ease the 
complexity and later maintenance.




The problem you have is that this is a 2 stage process. It's a classic chicken and 
egg scenario. 

At the point where your running code to generate the forms, your currently already 
in the pipeline that needs the code to compile to be ready. 

What do I mean by this? Consider the following (and yes I am using PHP for the example, 
it's easier to describe) 

If you wanted to use a PHP script to generate PHP scripts it cannot be done, because 
at the point where your running your PHP interpreter to run the code to create the 
code, your request already has an execution context that was created before those 
scripts came into existence, and thus knows nothing of those scripts ever existing. 
The result if you tried to execute them would be at the simplest, the web-server 
would return them as plain text, at the worst some kind of server exception. 

(and yes I have tried this in the past....) 

The closest I was EVER able to come, was to use PHP to write a perl script, that 
perl script was then added to the output as an IMG tag, which when rendered caused 
the browser to make a second request to the perl script automatically, this perl 
script then wrote a PHP script and then issued a HTTP redirect to the newly written 
script. 

Of course this can (and often will) go horribly wrong, Iv'e seen Chrome attempt to 
turn itself inside out making sense of such redirects, and older browsers... well 
let's just say "The same effects as a low yield nuclear device" :-) 

Now that's not to say that it's an impossible task, but it's most definitely a task 
where you absolutely have to think outside the box and the traditional web pipeline. 

2 solutions spring to my mind: 

1) - Using the standard web pipeline 

You could retrieve the object from your backing store, then using reflection and 
output injection in your controller, you could reflect over the properties available, 
then use those to inject tags directly into your controllers output. 

Remember in MVC there's no law says you have to return a view from disk, there are a 
multitude of possible return types. 

2) - Working outside the web pipeline (and my recommended method) 

Create a small windows service (Use something like topshelf to make it easy), this 
service will sit running in the background monitoring your database. 

When it detects a change in the database, it will write an html partial view into 
your MVC app's shared views directory. 

All you then have to do is place some logic in your controller that decides which 
partial view to use. 

This also maintains your separation of concerns model and still allows your 
designer to mostly still have control over your UI output.
3 days ago• Like
 
Follow David
David Haney • This should not be hard. Create a custom HtmlHelper extension that 
reads the data from your database and outputs it as MvcHtmlString type in your Views. 
Then you could do @Html.RenderMyControl("someDBkeyorsomething")




